1  Regular Council Meeting
Monday, June 8, 2009

The Appomattox Town Council held a regular council meeting on Monday, June 8, 2009 at 6:30
pm at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Bryan J. Baine, N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, John T.
“Plicky” Williams, Karl E. Carter, Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.

Others:  Carlton Duck, Derek Norfield, Barbara Shelton, William Goodrich, June Goodrich,
Mary Lou Spiggle, Timmy Garrett, Jonathan Garrett, Bob Hopkins, Samuel Carter, Chad
Millner, Cliff Harvey, John Wilson, Sarah Watson, Marvin Mitchell, Rob Longmiere, Bart S.
Van Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager and Roxanne Paulette, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Rev. Rob Longmiere gave the invocation.

On a motion by Councilmember Williams, seconded by Councilmember Carter, Council voted to
adopt the consent agenda of June 8, 2009.  All members present voting aye.

Mayor’s Comments – Thanked the staff for their continued assistance with the Railroad Festival.
Mayor Harvey also publicly thanked Dean Thompson for his service – the Town wants to
continue to building on the success of the Railroad Festival.

On a motion by Councilmember Carter, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs,
Council adopted the following resolution:

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, permits public bodies to enter into Closed
Session for reasons cited in the Code of Virginia §2.2-3711 (A)…such as the negotiations of the
waterline between the Appomattox Town Council and Appomattox County Board of Supervisors;
and

WHEREAS, the citizens in the Town of Appomattox for several years have been subjected to a
council which refuses to discuss the waterline in public sessions; and

WHEREAS, the taxpayers elected our council members to be servants for our community and
we as council members have failed to communicate our position with the citizens, taxpayers and
media; and

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council has met in Closed Session six times in the past
fifteen months and to my knowledge has disseminated very limited if any information relative to
the waterline to the citizens, taxpayers and media; and

WHEREAS, it is long over due to begin communicating to our citizens, taxpayers and media the
position we as council members have on the waterline

2  Regular Council Meeting
Monday, June 8, 2009

NOW, THEREFORE, LET IT BE RESOLVED, the Appomattox Town Council must cease
hiding behind closed doors to discuss the negotiations of the waterline and discontinue
immediately all communication and discussion in closed session.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Carter, Council voted
to advertise the amendment and reenactment of Chapter 126 – Licensing of the Code of the
Town of Appomattox.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Bart S. Van Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager provided a power point presentation of information
and analysis of the Concord/Appomattox Waterline.

Council Concerns – None

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Councilmember Carter,
Council voted to adjourn at 8:10 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

