ref: reel_03_0438
date: 1979-02-12
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, February 12, 1979, at 7:30 P.M. with Vice-Mayor R. L. Bass, presiding.

Those present were R. C. Hubbard, T. E. Conner, Samuel Carter, and Thomas W. Lawson.

Also present were Bennie West, Arco, Inc.; Dr. James C. May, May-Hines & Associates; and W. R. Britton, Jr., Town Manager. Mr. Dick Hamilton also attended.

The reading of the minutes were waived at this time to open the bids on Cable TV Franchise.

Vice-Mayor Bass opened the first bid received. This bid was listed in the name of Ronald M. Coleman, but the Company will later be known as Appomattox Cable TV Company. Mr. Britton, Town Manager, read the bid as presented to those present.

The second bid was opened by the Vice-Mayor. This bid was from Thomas Jefferson, Inc. Mr. W. R. Britton read this bid to those present.

The third bid was opened by the Vice-Mayor. This bid was from Arco, Inc. (C.A.T.V Electronics), Mr. W. R. Britton, Jr., read this bid to those present.

Mr. Bass then asked if there were any other bids, there being no other bids submitted, he declared the bidding closed.

Mr. Conner made the motion to refer the three bids to the Cable TV Committee for their study and recommendations, seconded by Mr. Hubbard.

Hubbard-aye Conner-aye Carter-aye Lawson-aye

Dr. James May, May-Hines & Associates appeared before Council to discuss the status of the Wastewater Facilities Plan.

After a lengthy discussion period by Council with Dr. May, Council voted to meet with Dr. May and the State Water Control Board at a recessed meeting.

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. Hubbard to recess this meeting until next Wednesday night, at 7:30 P.M. to discuss the Sewer Facilities Plan, and all members voted aye.

Dr. May informed Council of his talks with Mr. Ed Pettigrew, of Horner, Barksdale & Company, Financial Consultants to prepare their report on the Financial Condition of the Town.

Mr. Lawson made the motion, seconded by Mr. Carter, to continue with Horner, Barksdale & Company as the Financial Consultants for the Town.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye
chunk_id: 20590
record_id: 1610
page_number: 1

