1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
June 25, 2019

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, June 25, 2019 at 6:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present: Jonathan Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett,
Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Rachel Mahoney, Michelle Payne, Carlton Duck, Bob Sayre, Susan Adams, Jeff
Elder, Kim Ray, Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and Roxanne Casto, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the Workshop meeting to order.

There was a lengthy discussion of the American Civil War Museum funding request for a
Welcome Center at the museum.  No decision regarding the request was made.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Timothy Garrett, Council voted to award the bid
for the pre-owned street sweeper to Virginia Public Works Equipment Co. for $147,000.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to approve write-offs for
miscellaneous invoices that have reached the statue of limitations in the amount of $788.11 for
the years of 2012-2015.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Committee Reports:
Mr. Timothy Garrett, Chairman of the Physical Development Committee reported that the Town
Public Works Department has been cleaning up the brush and cedar trees along the tree line
between the Kiddie Park and the lot owned by Liberty Baptist Church for their new park.

Finance & Planning - none

Council Concerns:

Mayor Harvey reminded everyone of the free event at the Courtland Festival Park on June 29,
2019 from 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.

Staff Reports:
Mrs. Kim Ray, Town Treasurer provided the May 2019 Financial Report.

Mr. Gary Shanaberger provided updates on the following items:

➢  He and Mrs. Adams have discussed possible dates for a joint Town & County
meeting either on August 14 or 15, 2019.  Mr. Shanaberger is also looking for
feedback for 3 agenda topics.

➢  Dalgleish, Gilpin and Paxton are willing to assist the Town with Historic Tax

Credit for an estimate of $5,000.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
June 25, 2019

Council gave consensus to allow Dalgleish, Gilpin and Pax to proceed with
looking for Historic Tax Credits.

➢  Mr. Shanaberger will be organizing a ROSE garden meeting within the next
month.  Please let him know if you know anyone who would be interested in
serving on the committee.

➢  Senator Mark Peake requests to meet with Council in July, August or September
to assist the Town in reaching their goals.  Council gave consensus to meeting
with Senator Peake in August or September, prior to a regular Council meeting.

➢  Mr. Shanaberger advised Council of the ongoing projects:

•  Sewer Inflow & Infiltration – Phase 2
•  Downtown Revitalization Grant
•  Train Depot
•  Lee Grant Avenue sidewalk/roadway project
•  Church Street waterline
•  Meadowlark project
•  Comprehensive Plan
•  Update of zoning maps
•  Recodification of Town Code

On a motion by Mr. Jonathan Garrett, seconded by Mr. Timmy Garrett, Council voted to adjourn
at 7:20 pm. All members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

