1  Appomattox Town Council

Public Hearing
November 14, 2016

The Appomattox Town Council held a public hearing on Monday, November 14, 2016 at 7:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Town Council Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou
Spiggle, and M. Erin Finch.

Town Council Members Absent:  Steven T. Conner

Others present:  Brian Moore & Carlton Duck, Alive Media Services; Ashlie Walter, News &
Advance; Daniel Puckette, Times Virginian; Noah Harris, Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; and
Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey stated the purpose of the public hearing:

In accordance with §15.2-202 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, the purpose of this
public hearing will be to receive public comments concerning amendments to the Appomattox
Town Charter, Chapter C of the Appomattox Town Code. The Charter and amendments are
available for review at the Appomattox Town Office, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia,
Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. or by calling 434-352-8268.

An informative summary of the amendments desired are listed below.

Current:

§C-1.  Election and appointment of officers, etc.

There shall be elected by the qualified voters of said Town every two years, on the first Tuesday
in May of every even-numbered year, one elector thereof, who shall be denominated the Mayor,
and six electors, who shall be denominated the Councilmen of said Town; the Mayor and six
Councilmen shall constitute the Council of said Town. The Town Council may appoint a
Treasurer, Commissioner of Revenue and shall have the authority to employ a Town Clerk, a
Town Manager, and the same person may serve in one or more of such capacities, and whenever
deemed wise a health or sanitary officer, and such other officers as it may deem wise and
necessary for the proper conduct of the government of said Town, and appoint committees and
boards, and prescribe and fix their duties, and shall have power to fix the salary and
compensation of said Treasurer, Town Clerk, Town Manager and such other officers, necessary,
but such compensation shall be fixed by said Council before the officer chosen shall assume the
duties of his office. (1980 Acts, ch. 43)

2  Appomattox Town Council

Public Hearing
November 14, 2016

Amended to read:

§C-1.  Election and appointment of officers, etc.

There shall be elected by the qualified voters of said Town one elector thereof, who shall be
denominated the Mayor, and six electors, who shall be denominated the Councilmen of said
Town; the Mayor and six Councilmen shall constitute the Council of said Town.  The Town
Council shall have the authority to appoint or employ a Town Clerk, a Treasurer, a
Commissioner of Revenue, a Town Manager, a health or sanitary officer, and such other officers
as it may deem appropriate for the proper conduct of government of the Town; the same person
may serve in one or more of such capacities. The Town Council shall have the power to fix the
salary and compensation of said employees and appointees as necessary, but such compensation
shall be fixed by said Council before the individual chosen shall assume the duties of office.
The Town Council may also appoint committees and boards, and prescribe and fix their duties.

Current:

§C-4.  Terms of office; vacancies.
The Mayor and members of Council shall enter upon the duties of their office on the first day of
July, next succeeding their election, and shall continue in the office until their terms have
expired, and their successors shall have been elected and qualified. In case of a vacancy in the
office of Mayor, or Councilmen, elected by the electors of said Town, caused by death,
resignation or otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled by a majority vote of the Town Council
from the electors of the Town for the unexpired term. (1980 Acts, ch. 43)

Amended to read:

§C-4.  Terms of office; vacancies.
The Mayor and Council in office at the time of the adoption of this Charter shall continue in
office until the expiration of the terms for which they were elected or until their successors are
elected and qualified. At the next election of members to the Town Council held on the first
Tuesday in May 2018, the three (3) council candidates receiving the greatest number of votes
shall be elected for three and one-half year terms, and the three (3) council candidates receiving
the next greatest number of votes and the Mayor shall be elected for one and one-half year terms.
Thereafter, the Council members shall be elected for terms of four (4) years, and the Mayor shall
be elected for terms of two (2) years, or until their successors are elected and qualified.  An
election shall be held on the first Tuesday in November 2019 for the three council seats first
expiring and for the Mayor, and on the first Tuesday in November 2021 for the three council
seats next expiring.  Elections thereafter shall be held every two (2) years on the first Tuesday in
November.  The term of each person elected under this section at a May election shall begin on
July 1 next following their election, and of each person elected under this section at a November
election shall begin on January 1 next following their election.  In case of a vacancy in the office
of Mayor, or Councilmen, elected by the electors of said Town, caused by death, resignation or
otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled by a majority vote of the Town Council from the electors
of the Town for the unexpired term.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Public Hearing
November 14, 2016

No comments were made from the public during the hearing.

Mayor Harvey closed the public hearing.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

