1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 14, 2016

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, November 14,
2016 at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Members absent:  Steven T. Conner

Others present:  Carlton Duck & Brian Moore, Alive Media Services; Daniel Puckette, Times
Virginian Newspaper; Ashlie Walter, News & Advance; Linda Lipscomb, Robin Snyder,
Superintendent of the Appomattox Court House National Historical Park; Kelly Hitchcock,
Senior Planner, Region 2000; and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Regular Council meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Brian Moore led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Mr. Nathan Simpson called to let Town Council know he would not be attending.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey met with Mr. Gillespie, Mrs. Susan Adams and Mr. William H. Hefty, Attorney
to discuss forming a joint Town and County Economic Development Authority.  Mr. Hefty
indicated that there are several options – one would be to keep the two entities separate and
create one policy – the second would be to fold the Town’s EDA under the County’s and provide
articles to cover both parties.  The other two suggestions were not worth pursuing.

Mayor Harvey also informed Council that the Mr. Gillespie created a blighted property
agreement/grant.  Mr. Hefty did not suggesting putting it into effect, however doing so would not
set a precedence as this could be done as a one-time item.  Mayor Harvey and Mrs. Susan Adams
will be attending the Town’s EDA meeting on Thursday, November 17, 2016 to present both of
these items.  The blighted property policy will likely be tabled until a decision is made regarding
the joining of EDA’s.

Consent Agenda -
On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to approve the consent
agenda of November 14, 2016.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch –
aye, Puckette – aye, Conner - absent.  Motion carried.

Old Business – none

New Business –
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adopt a resolution
of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia to amend the Town’s Charter.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 14, 2016

RESOLUTION

Whereas, the Appomattox Town Council met on the 14th day of November, 2016 and hereby
requests by resolution of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia to amend the
Town’s Charter as follows:

1.  Unless otherwise specifically changed herein, all provisions of the Town

Charter remain in force and effect.

2.  Section 1 - Election and appointment of officers, etc.  is amended to read:

There shall be elected by the qualified voters of said Town one elector thereof,
who shall be denominated the Mayor, and six electors, who shall be denominated
the Councilmen of said Town; the Mayor and six Councilmen shall constitute the
Council of said Town.  The Town Council shall have the authority to appoint or
employ a Town Clerk, a Treasurer, a Commissioner of Revenue, a Town
Manager, a health or sanitary officer, and such other officers as it may deem
appropriate for the proper conduct of government of the Town; the same person
may serve in one or more of such capacities. The Town Council shall have the
power to fix the salary and compensation of said employees and appointees as
necessary, but such compensation shall be fixed by said Council before the
individual chosen shall assume the duties of office.   The Town Council may also
appoint committees and boards, and prescribe and fix their duties.

3.  Section 4 – Terms of office; vacancies is amended to read:

The Mayor and Council in office at the time of the adoption of this Charter shall
continue in office until the expiration of the terms for which they were elected or
until their successors are elected and qualified. At the next election of members to
the Town Council held on the first Tuesday in May 2018, the three (3) council
candidates receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected for three and
one-half year terms, and the three (3) council candidates receiving the next
greatest number of votes and the Mayor shall be elected for one and one-half year
terms.  Thereafter, the Council members shall be elected for terms of four (4)
years, and the Mayor shall be elected for terms of two (2) years, or until their
successors are elected and qualified.  An election shall be held on the first
Tuesday in November 2019 for the three council seats first expiring and for the
Mayor, and on the first Tuesday in November 2021 for the three council seats
next expiring.  Elections thereafter shall be held every two (2) years on the first
Tuesday in November.  The term of each person elected under this section at a
May election shall begin on July 1 next following their election, and of each
person elected under this section at a November election shall begin on January 1
next following their election.  In case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, or
Councilmen, elected by the electors of said Town, caused by death, resignation or

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 14, 2016

otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled by a majority vote of the Town Council
from the electors of the Town for the unexpired term.

This Resolution was adopted by a majority vote of the Appomattox Town Council at its
November 14, 2016 meeting.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Puckette – aye, Conner –
absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to approve a Services
Agreement for Zoning/Plan Review and authorize the Mayor to execute.

TOWN OF APPPOMATTOX
SERVICES AGREEMENT FOR ZONING/PLAN REVIEW

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox has a temporary need for assistance with the
administration of the requirements in its zoning ordinance, and

WHEREAS, examples of these as needed services would include, but not limited to,
interpretations of the Town’s zoning ordinance, review of site plans/plats for zoning compliance,
review/approval of zoning permits, meetings with the Town’s Planning Commission/Board of
Zoning Appeals as deemed necessary, and meetings with potential developers needing assistance
in the interruption of the Town’s zoning ordinance, and

WHEREAS, Appomattox County has graciously offered to provide these services until the Town
has secured the necessary professional expertise to execute these services, and

WHEREAS, the Mayor will serve as the Town’s Zoning Administrator for approval and
signature on reviewed documents, and

WHEREAS, the proposed agreement between the Town of Appomattox and Appomattox County
would include the following conditions:

•  This agreement can be terminated by either party at any time with 30 days’ notice
•  All advertisements and other out of pocket expenses for the administration of the

zoning ordinance shall be paid directly by the Town of Appomattox

•  All advertisements and public meeting notices shall be the responsibility of the Town

of Appomattox

•  All minutes and other meeting documentation shall be the responsibility of the Town of

Appomattox

•  This agreement will be reviewed by both Town Council and Board of Supervisors six

months after the effective date of December 1, 2016.

This agreement was approved by the Council of the Town of Appomattox on the 14th day of
November, 2016.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 14, 2016

This agreement was approved by the Board of Supervisors of Appomattox County on the 21st
day of November 2016.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Puckette – aye, Conner –
absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to cancel the
November 22, 2016 and December 27, 2016 Council Workshop meetings.
Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Puckette – aye, Conner –
absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

There was discussion of the FLAP Application and Town’s letter of support for the project.  Ms.
Hitchcock, Senior Planner, Region 2000 Local Government Council appeared before Council to
answer any questions or provide additional information.  The earliest completion would be 2020.
There are several more years to set aside the funding for this project, should it get awarded.  The
grant is for $700,000 and needs participation from both the Town and County to make the
application.  The National Park commitment at this point is $16,000.00.  Ms. Snyder said she
will continue to look for additional funds.  This is part of a community project and creates
connectivity.  This grant could lead to other grant money, specifically the Downtown Façade
project.  Ms. Hitchcock stated it was her understanding that the Appomattox County Board of
Supervisors would also be providing a letter of support as they voted for Option A, committing
to the match also.  It is anticipated that award would occur in August of 2017.  Ms. Snyder
thanked the Town Council and is very appreciative and is looking forward to a great opportunity
to the local people of the community.

Treasurer’s Report – none

Town Manager’s Report – none

Citizen Comment Period – none

Council Concerns:
Mrs. Puckette expressed her concerned of a budget report.  She would like to have one soon.
There is much discussion about spending and she would like to know the status of funds.

It is now mid-November and Council has not had a retreat.  She would like to have one.
Also, there has been no preparation made for the coming year, exploring of new ideas.  We are
behind and this is no time to drop the ball.  She said she had spoken with Mr. Gillespie who
would be willing to facilitate a retreat if that is what Council wants.

On a motion by Ms. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to hold a retreat on
Friday, December 9, 2016.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye,
Puckette – aye, Conner – absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 14, 2016

Mayor Harvey invited the Council members to attend the Town Economic Development
Authority meeting on Thursday, November 17, 2016 at 6:00 p.m. to hear the presentation
regarding the View Shed Policy.

Mayor Harvey also invited the Council members to attend the GO Virginia meeting on
November 28, 2016 at 2:00 p.m. at Wiley | Wilson presented by the Lynchburg Regional
Business Alliance.

The Appomattox County Administrator, Susan Adams has proposed the following dates for the
next joint Town and County meeting – Thursday, January 12, 2017 and Thursday, January 19,
2017.  Council members will check their schedules/calendars and let the Clerk know of their
availability.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adjourn at 8:05
p.m.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Puckette – aye,
Conner – absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

