ae ee ny
i

Regular meeting - June 9, 1997

A Town Council meeting was held on Monday, June 9, 1997 at 7:30 p.m. in the Appomattox Municipal
Building with Mayor R. C. Spiggle, presiding.

Members present: H. B. Pack, IV., Marvin H. Mitchell, Steven E. Lawson, N. H. Jimmy) Mayberry, and S.
E. Carter. Absent: R. L. Bass

Others present: Thomas Evans, Pat Evans, Mabel Simpson, Bill Slagle, Bill
Phillips, Town Attorney, Cindy Smith, Times Virginian Newspaper, Roxanne Paulette, Acting Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion made by N. H. Mayberry, seconded by S. E. Carter to approve the consent agenda with the
following additions: Old Business #3 - Rezoning Request - William Slagle, New Business #6 - Appoint
commissioners to vacate a street in town, #7 - Employee Personnel Policy, #8 - Appropriate money for sewer
rehabilitation. All voting aye. Motion carried.

Public Comments

Bill Slagle addressed council concerning his businesses on Church and Atwood Streets. In reference to
parking, loading and unloading.

Mabel Simpson has a problem with people parking on Atwood Street - It is a very congested area.

No standing committee reports.

_ Unfinished Business

On a motion made by S. E. Carter, seconded by N. H. Mayberry the Storm water Detention at the
Appomattox Middle School was tabled to the next regular meeting. All voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion made by S. E. Carter, seconded by M. H. Mitchell to pass the Truck Traffic on Evergreen
Avenue and Church Street to the street committee. All voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion made by 8. E. Lawson, seconded by H. B. Pack to approve the rezoning request from R-2 to B-1
for William Slagle on Church and Atwood Street. All voting aye. Motion carried.

New Business

On a motion made by S.E. Carter, seconded by M.H. Mitchell to waive the water availability fee for Bible
Baptist Church. All voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion made by S.E. Lawson, seconded by N.H. Mayberry to pass the Cable Franchise Agreement. All
voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion made by N.H. Mayberry, seconded by H.B. Pack to Table the skateboarding ordinance for 30
days. All voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion made by $.E. Lawson, seconded by H.Br Page to allow one (1) W& S§ connection for Parkview

