ref: reel_02_0250
date: 1950-09-18
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on September 18, 1950 with Vice Mayor Chas. F. James presiding and the following members present: Chas. E. James, J. E. Jamerson, C. S. Jenkins, J. C. Caldwell, C. T. Moses, Jr. and F. C. Dresser.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

The street Committee reported their investigation of the request of Mrs. Lester B. Harvey at the previous meeting for improved street lighting at her residence. On a motion by C. T. Moses, Jr., seconded by F. C. Dresser and carried the clerk was requested to write Mrs. Harvey and advise her that the committee recommended, and the council approved, that the present street light is sufficient for the street in front of her property.

On a motion by C. T. Moses, Jr., seconded by C. S. Jenkins and carried, an application for water and sewer service for Mr. A. R. Harwood's new house on East Cemetery Road was rejected at this time due to the Town's recent acquisition of said street and the proposed improvement of same this year.

Applications by Chas. I. Woody for town water, J. W. Martin for water and sewer service, J. E. Jamerson and C. Lewis McDearmon for water extended beyond the Corporate Limits, West (they furnish the pipe and the Town install it), were referred to the Water Committee. By request, the Vice Mayor appointed Mr. F. C. Dresser to act as chairman of the water committee in the place of Chairman J. E. Jamerson.

After the Town Manager announced to the Council the resignation of Herman Carter from Town employment on September 15, 1950, on a motion by J. E. Jamerson seconded by J. C. Caldwell, the clerk was requested to notify Mr. Carter in writing that the Council would expect him to vacate the house (Town Property) in which he now resides within thirty days from the date of his resignation. Carried.

An application Mr. Mr. J. W. Cawthorn, Jr. for an additional street light and moving of one other on School Street was referred to the Street Committee.

By a duly carried motion, payment of all unpaid bills due at the time of this meeting was authorized.

On a motion adjourned.

Signed E. Carroll Smith
Clerk

Signed Chas. F. James
Vice Mayor
chunk_id: 19734
record_id: 754
page_number: 1

