# REGULAR MEETING – March 11, 2002

Page 4 of 4

ut

26, 2002 at 7:00 PM with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: Norman Mayberry, Joyce Bennett, Marvin Mitchell, -
C, Lewis McDearmon, and Steve Lawson. Absent — W. H. Carson

Others present were: Butch Evans, John L. Wilson, Bill Gillespie, Roxanne Paulette,
Lisa Knott, Times Virginian, David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager, William Phillips,
Town Attorney, and Bobbie Mullins, Clerk.

Mr. Bill Gillespie, Executive Director, Region 2000, spoke to Council about a proposed
“Bike Plan”. This is the first step in a Master plan, which is needed to be eligible for
grant funds. ;

Mr. Don Austin, VDOT, has requested that the Town Council reconsider their request to
close Main Street on March 30, 2002, Marvin Mitchell has presented a petition from =~
eleven businesses or groups on the Street Closing.

Butch Evans does not want the Street closed. He also felt that Town Council should go
along with people who own property and pay taxes downtown.

After much discussion, Town Council decided to refer the request to the Street
Committee. They also requested a meeting be held and invite all the merchants and
interested individuals to make comments on the street closings and the celebrations.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council referred the street
closing issue to the Street Committee for their study and recommendations, and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to reconsider the
previous motion by Town Council to request Virginia Department of Transportation to
close Main Street on March 30° and all those présent voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to deny the
7 uest from the Volunteers for Downtown Celebrations to close Main Street on March
for an Easter Celebration, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr.-Lawson, Council voted to refer the
request for a weekly Downtown Market to the Street Committee for their study and
recommendations and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

There being no further business to come before the Workshop, it adjourned at 7:55PM.

“es ~The Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was" ‘eit “on Tuesday, Mates" "=" i ia
: |
|