1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
July 28, 2020

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, July 28, 2020 at 6:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Richard Conner, presiding.

Town Council members present were Jonathan D. Garrett, Nathan A. Simpson, Timothy W.
Garrett, and Paul D. Harvey.  Mary Lou Spiggle and Claudia G. Puckette joined via phone
conference call.

Staff present were Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Town Manager, Gary Shanaberger; Town
Treasurer, Kim Ray; and Town Clerk, Roxanne Casto.

The meeting was also broadcast LIVE on the Town of Appomattox Facebook page and allowed
public phone participation through FreeConferenceCall.com.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

Mayor Conner asked if Council had any items they would like to discuss?

Mr. Paul Harvey asked if the wastewater bids came in today.  Mr. Shanaberger responded that
they did however, the engineers need to review the bids.  Mr. Elder explained the Inflow and
Infiltration Rehabilitation project expected to be completed as a result of the bids.

Council Comments:
Mr. Harvey – Inquired about the change of contractors for the curbside garbage contractor and
how the exchange of cans went today, July 28?  Mr. Shanaberger responded it went as well as
could be expected.  There will be several weeks of transition to contend with, but the Public
Works Department will resolve the issues.

Mr. Jonathan Garrett – The Town had originally agreed to work with the County on the fire truck
purchase and the County has agreed to fund $250,000 for 5 years.  The Town’s agreement was to
fund 40% if the County funded 60%.  The way it will work now, is the AVFD will need to
fundraise $110,000.  Regardless of the contingency, the AVFD would like to verify the Town’s
commitment of $240,000 as soon as possible.  The AVFD will secure the loan under their name.

Mayor Conner is the Town representative on the Central Virginia Planning District Commission.
There are a couple of things going on he would like to advise Council of:

1 – There will be a proposed by-law amendment to allow for consecutive terms of service for the
PDC Chair.  The reason is to create continuity in situations where the next chairman may lose his
election or retire.  At the next regional meeting, Mr. Shanaberger and Mr. Conner will be
participating and the PDC plans to bring this issue to a vote with the membership.

2 - The PDC voted to release up to $134,000 over two fiscal years from the PDC reserves to the
Central Virginia Community College as a match for a “GO Virginia” grant that would hire two
staff members for the Career and Technical Education Center

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
July 28, 2020

Council Standing Committee Reports – none

Staff Reports
Roxanne Casto, Clerk – none

Jeff Elder, Facilities Director – none

Kim Ray, Town Treasurer presented the Treasurer’s Report for June 2020 for the General, Water
and Sewer Fund.  There are currently two (2) financial systems open, Logic & Edmunds.  Some
of this information may change as the year is finalized.

The software conversion is on-going.

The Town Auditors are due in September 2020.

Mr. Harvey asked if the Town would still be considering investment options other than CD’s in
the future?  Mr. Shanaberger and Mrs. Ray said yes, after the conversion and audits are
complete.

Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager reported on the following activities:

He has been working on a mixed-use zoning ordinance with the Town Attorney.  This
would allow mixed use zoning in the B-1 and B-2 districts.  People want to be able to
have loft apartments above retail space.  A lot of communities have mixed-use
ordinances.   The ordinance addresses parking requirements for the units upstairs.  It
would be one parking spot per bedroom.  The building inspector suggested because you
will have residential above business, architectural/certified drawings should be required
for the residential part.  Fire escape type situations need to be drawn into the plans.
There are several properties that could benefit from this.

Mr. Harvey asked if this needs to be an ordinance, not handled through a conditional use
permit?  Mr. Shanaberger responded that it needs to be an ordinance.

He also asked if newer buildings would need sprinkler systems?  Mr. Shanaberger said all
of this would be in the ordinance for state building codes.

Mr. Simpson asked if they would need to submit a draft parking plan?  Mr. Shanaberger
said yes, and the parking spot has to be within 500 feet and has to be deeded – cannot be
rented.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
July 28, 2020

Mr. Shanaberger stated there is enthusiasm for this in Town.

The Downtown Revitalization Project:
The first 8 bids are due in August and the next set could go out in the following 60 days.

The Town Attorney, Frank Wright, Jr., has forwarded the necessary paperwork to
Delegate Farris and Senator Peake regarding the Town Charter Referendum from the
May election.

Staff will be having a conference call tomorrow regarding grant funding for the Church
Street Waterline project.

The Smart Scale sidewalk application is due August 17, 2020.  Council will need to pass
a resolution in September 2020.  We should know the status of the project in January or
February 2021.

Staff is performing at a very high level right now and really multi-tasking.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. J. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Simpson, Council voted to adjourn at 6:40 p.m.
All members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

