ref: reel_03_0332
date: 1978-07-10
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, July 10, 1978 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were: Burke Guill, T. E. Conner, R. L. Bass, R. C. Hubbard, and R. C. Spriggle.

Those also present were: Ann Vandegaaf, Central Virginia Planning District Commission Planner, and Thomas W. Lawson, Councilman-Elect.

The minutes of the Special Council meeting were read and approved as read.

Ms. Vandegaaf appeared before Council to present the Housing Plan and the Housing Action Plan FY 1978, prepared by the Central Virginia Planning District Commission.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion that the Housing Plan FY 78 be adopted, seconded by Mr. Guill.

Conner - aye  Guill - aye  Bass - aye  Hubbard - aye

Mr. Hubbard made the motion to adopt the Housing Action Plan FY 78, seconded by Mr. Guill.

Conner - aye  Guill - aye  Bass - aye  Hubbard - aye

The Financial Statement was discussed by Council.

Mr. Britton reported that the Water Tank is almost complete but Flippo's are requesting a 30 day extension of time in order to complete the Tank.

Mr. Hubbard made a motion, seconded by Mr. Bass, to grant a 15 day extension of time, beginning on June 13, 1978.

Conner - aye  Guill - aye  Bass - aye  Hubbard - aye

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Bass, the Town Council gave the Appomattox Planning Commission permission to take the Preliminary draft of the Comprehensive Plan to public hearing.

Conner - aye  Bass - aye  Guill - aye  Hubbard - aye

Mr. Britton reported we have received unofficial notice that we have a grant from E.P.A. in the amount of $27,750.00 to do the I. & I. Study on our sewerage system.

Mr. Bass made a motion, seconded by Mr. Spiggle, to appoint Thomas W. Lawson, to fill the unexpired term of Marvin J. House, Jr., on Town Council.

Conner - aye  Guill aye  Hubbard -aye  Bass - aye  Spiggle - aye
chunk_id: 20498
record_id: 1518
page_number: 1

