1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 28, 2023

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, November 28, 2023, at
6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy Garrett,
Claudia G. Puckette, and Nathan A. Simpson.

Others present: Carlton Duck, Frank Wright; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee,
Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

CLOSED SESSION:

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Council voted to convene in Closed
Session pursuant to Virginia Code Section 2.2-3711(A)8, for the purpose of consultation with
legal counsel retained by the Town regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of
legal advice by such counsel specifically being the Brownfield Study.

Roll call vote: Allen-yes, Boyce-yes, Spiggle-yes, Garrett-yes, Simpson-yes, Puckette-yes
Motion carried 6-0.

Certification: To the best of each member’s knowledge, the only subjects just discussed or
considered in the preceding closed meeting were those : (i) lawfully exempted from the Freedom
of Information Act open meeting requirements and (ii) properly identified in the motion that
convened the closed meeting, pursuant to Virginia Code Section 2.2-3712 (D).

Roll call vote: Allen-yes, Boyce-yes, Spiggle-yes, Garrett-yes, Simpson-yes, Puckette-yes
Motion carried 6-0.

DISCUSSION:

Consideration to appoint individuals to the Train Depot Advisory Committee.

Mr. Simpson led the discussion of creating a process or procedures for the committee to use
during their meetings. He also recommended each council member email the Town Clerk the
name and contact information for their nominee. The Town Clerk will then distribute the
candidates’ names as an agenda item for the next meeting.

Mr. Simpson would also like for the Council to consider hiring a facilitator for the meetings of
the committee, such as the Lynchburg Reginal Business Alliance.

The council then discussed the scope of the committee:

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 28, 2023

Mr. Garrett states its wide open now and that is what scares him to death.

Mr. Simpson encouraged a hybrid type of scope. Listing some of the Town’s wants and putting
guard rails on the committee. The Town may or may not be able to do the ideas that come from
the committee.

Mrs. Puckette advised that she does not feel like our visitor’s center tells the story of what
happened in Appomattox. Maybe we need to re-work the visitor center to include World War II
and the Civil War history.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Ms. Puckette, the Council voted to dedicate a half a
day, evening or night, with a facilitator and then let the facilitator lead the next 3 meetings with
the committee, with a cost not to exceed $10,000. The facilitator would then produce a report for
the Town Council .

Roll call vote: Allen-yes, Boyce-yes, Spiggle-yes, Garrett-yes, Simpson-yes, Puckette-yes
Motion carried 6-0.

Mrs. Puckette encouraged the council to choose the most creative people you know.

COUNCIL COMMENTS:

Ms. Puckette- invited everyone to see the new nativity scene at Liberty Baptist Church.

Mr. Simpson- asked if there was any interest in creating a pre-set amount for non-profits as we
head into the budget season, excluding the fire and police departments. The non-profits would
apply and the Town would divide up the capped amount.

Secondly, he inquired about the status of the security cameras at the depot.

Lastly, he asked if a calendar of all meetings could be shared with the public.

Mr. Garrett- advised that the Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department would be hosting a
fundraiser “Breakfast with Santa” on Saturday, December 2, 2023, from 9:00 amn-12:00 noon at
the firehouse.

He also requested staff to create a Proclamation recognizing the 2023 Girls Volleyball Team of
the Appomattox County High School.

Ms. Spiggle-none

Mr. Boyce-none
Ms. Allen-none

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 28, 2023

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS:

Finance and Planning– None

Physical Development Committee – None

ARPA-None

STAFF REPORTS:

Mr. McGhee reported Mr. Elder is doing well.

Mrs. Ray presented the Treasurer’s Report as of October 2023. She also reported the presentation
of the FY2023 Annual Audit is scheduled for the Monday, December 11, 2023, Town Council
Meeting.

Mr. McGhee notified the council members that Mrs. Ray received compliments of Christy
Torrence and Sharon Mobley, “They are great people.”

Mr. McGhee provided an update on the following items:

➢  The Downtown Revitalization project.
➢  Complaints regarding trash collection and loud Christmas music. Both items are being

addressed.

➢  Firefly will begin to be installed in the next six (6) months.
➢  The depot project is complete and went over budget $11,452.56 or 2%
➢  Nathan Harbin will be submitting a timeline for the Depot landscaping and hardscaping

project.

➢  A country music festival is being discussed at the former Thomasville property for June

2024.

➢  Gunner Nowell’s poster is on display at the library.
➢  The split rail fencing, handicap parking spaces, fencing and railings and the gates at Mrs.

Wilson’s should be completed soon.

➢  CHA has begun working on the water source study.
➢  Mr. Conrad has asked the Appomattox County Administrator about the legal case

impacting the water supply. There has been no response as of today.

➢  The court case regarding Ms. Olivarri is scheduled for November 30, 2023.
➢  A portion of Church Street waterline will be undergoing pressure testing under 150 psi to

determine if any leaks exist.

➢  All water lines have been moved on Old Courthouse Road for the Smartscale project. The

new lines have also been entered in the GPS mapping system.

➢  He will be meeting  with a playground equipment company regarding handicap

equipment.

Council thanked Reverend Duck for his service and contribution to the Town.

4  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 28, 2023

ADJOURNMENT:

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Allen, the Council voted to adjourn at 8:30 p.m.
All council members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

