1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
February 27, 2024

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, February 27, 2024, at
6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: Jane T. Allen, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette,
Nathan A. Simpson and James J. Boyce, Sr.

Others present: Carlton Duck, Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry
McGhee, Town Manager and Christy J. Torrence, Interim Clerk of Council, Mrs. Nathan
Simpson, Dana Glover, Charles Conrad

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

DISCUSSION:

Mr. Elder led a discussion on sidewalks in need of repair. The most complaints are received on
Highland Ave sidewalks. Mrs. Allen showed pictures she had taken of some of the sidewalks
that need work. Mr. Elder said that the town has been loaded up on water and sewer projects the
last couple of years. He suggested the town do a sidewalk project one year, a water project one
year, and a sewer project one year, rotating every three years. Mr. Elder also suggested that we
investigate a VDOT share program. Mr. McGhee said Safe to School grants are available.

Mr. Elder led a discussion on the Smart Scale Project on Lee Grant Ave.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Garrett, the Council voted to proceed with the
application for the Smart Scale Project.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Mr. McGhee led a discussion on staffing changes with the Town’s employees.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, the Council voted to authorize the
town manager to advertise for the Human Resource manager and clerk position as presented.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Simpson, the Council voted to include sidewalk
maintenance in the CIP. All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Garrett, the Council voted to move Discussion #
5—Water for the future (water strategies)—and the Treasurer’s report to the next workshop
meeting. All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
February 27, 2024

A motion was made by Ms. Spiggle to allow Dominion 7 to move forward with the design of the
Town Hall renovation. A secondary motion was made by Mr. Simpson to see what 1.3 million
would accomplish (which would be exhausting all ARPA funding). Both motions died for lack
of a second.

COUNCIL COMMENTS:
Allen – none

Spiggle – none

Garrett – none

Puckette – none

Simpson – Would like to move forward with joint meeting with county by sending out a formal
invitation.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Boyce, the Council voted to formally invite the
County to a meeting hosted by the Town to discuss the items presented on the agenda and to set
the ground rules to exclude discussion of the following: lease and sale purchase agreement, the
water purchase contract, the waterline maintenance agreement, and water in general. All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS:

Finance and Planning/ARPA – None

Physical Development Committee - None

STAFF REPORTS:

None

ADJOURNMENT:

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Council voted to adjourn at 9:20 p.m.
All council members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Christy J. Torrence, Interim Clerk

                        Richard C. Conner

Mayor

