1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 12, 2024

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 12, 2024

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, February 12, 2024,
at 6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Conner, presiding.

Members present:  Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Claudia G. Puckette, Mary Lou G.
Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, Nathan A. Simpson

Others: Carlton Duck, Alive Media; Kim Ray, Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager;
Christy Torrence, Interim Clerk of Council; Charles Conrad; Blair Smith; Sarah Blackwell,
Mayor of Pamplin; Kaylee Simpson

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

Reverend Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 12, 2024

Mayor Conner welcomed everyone to the meeting.

Mayor’s Comments:
We are moving forward—getting a handle on projects. Wants to commend Mr. Simpson on the
potential agenda for town/county meeting.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Blair Smith from Dominion 7 Architects discussed the process of the town hall renovations and
additions. The next step is to accept or reject the fee proposal. Council will take two (2) weeks to
think about it and address it again at the next meeting.

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Town Council voted to adopt the
consent agenda as presented for February 12, 2024.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
A motion was made by Mrs. Allen to appoint Kaylee Simpson to the Town Economic
Development Authority, motion died for lack of a second.

On a motion by Mrs. Allen, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Council voted to appoint Donna
Preston to the Town Economic Development Authority vacancy, term expiring December 31,
2027. All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Council voted to appoint Kelsey
Moore to the Town Economic Development Authority unexpired term, term expiring December
31, 2026. All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

A discussion was held on an administrative issue; a portion of the Town code Section 50-13
refers to paying a fee to the county instead of the town.
On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mrs. Allen, the Council voted to amend Town code
Section 50-13 changing the word “county” to “town”. All members present voting aye. Motion
carried 5-0.

Council Standing Committee Reports:

ARPA: None

Finance and Planning Committee: None

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 12, 2024

Physical Development Committee: None

Citizen Comment:
Sarah Blackwell, Mayor of Pamplin introduced herself to council.

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. McGhee reviewed with Council his email dated February 9, 2024.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711(A)1, for the assignment of specific public appointees,
specifically being confirmation of Appointee A’s prior appointment and approval of the
personnel report.

ROLL CALL VOTE:  Allen – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes
Simpson – yes. Motion carried 5-0.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Boyce made the following motion:

To the best of each member’s knowledge, the only subjects just discussed or considered in the
preceding closed meeting were those: (i) lawfully exempted from the FOIA Act’s open-meeting
requirements and (ii) properly identified in the motion that convened the closed meeting,
pursuant to Virginia Code Section 2.2-3712(D).

The motion was seconded by Council Member Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

ROLL CALL VOTE: Allen – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes.
Simpson – yes. Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Garrett, the Council voted to approve the
personnel report, without amendment. All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Council Comments:

Mr. Boyce:  The roads are in poor condition because of the Church St Waterline Project. There
needs to be more diligence in keeping a workable surface—ruts and valleys can cause damage.

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 12, 2024

Ms. Allen: Any updates on park equipment? Terry answered that he had not followed up with
scheduling the appointment.

Mr. Garrett:  none

Ms. Spiggle:  none

Mrs. Puckette:  none

Mr. Simpson:

•  Researching security cameras at the Depot. Tori is reaching out to the schools to see

about getting the same type of system.

•  Trash truck came through again Friday morning at 3:55 am. They are dumping

commercial dumpsters. They are not compliant with county code.

•  Heard Firefly was coming to Town.
•  Since the last meeting developed concern with how a certain group feels he has been on
council. There is no basis for the accusations. The decisions made to communicate with
people are an effort to build streams of communication.
•  The whole process of the EDA appointments doesn’t sit right.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, the Council voted to adjourn at 8:35
pm.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Christy Torrence
Interim Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

