ref: reel_02_0433
date: 1966-06-17
content: The regular meeting of the Town Council was held in the Mayor's office on June 17, 1966 at 7:30 PM with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding, and C. S. Booth as Clerk.

The following members were present: Mrs. C. H. Robinson, Ivey Holland, R. C. Hubbard, Burke Guill, R. L. Bass, and R. L. Wingfield.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last regular and special meetings were read and approved.

Mayor Pack reported that he and Mr. Clark of the Highway Department had talked to Mrs. C. J. Hunter about giving the necessary right-of-way to widen Court Street in front of her house. Mrs. Hunter has not decided what she will do about it.

Mr. Wingfield brought up the question of parking beside the railroad depot. It was the conclusion of the members that the town has the right to control parking there.

Mr. Wingfield also would like to see the old frame railroad on Main Street torn down.

Mr. Guill brought up the question of erecting a street light at the corner where Mrs. Cabell Smith lives. Mayor Pack stated that Mr. Guill has the authority to order on if he thinks that it is needed.

A set of resolutions of sympathy to the family of Mr. Charles J. Hunter was presented by Mrs. Robinson, and were approved for sending to the family of Mr. Hunter, printing in the Times-Virginian, and attaching to these minutes.

Mr. Bass brought up the matter of the street behind his house needing repair. Mayor Pack reported that progress is being made towards having the Highway take it over.

WHEREAS, The Town of Appomattox requests the Virginia Department of Highways to take over for Maintenance & Improvement the following streets:

Fleshman St. from Lucy St. to Annie St. 581' long
Annie St. from Martha St. (End of present State Maintenance) 341' long
Ethel St. from Annie St. to N. W. 393' long

for the year beginning July 1, 1966.

The Town guarantees that the street have a width of 50'.

Recorded in Deed Book 24, Page 161, and shown on plot dated May 30, 1924.
chunk_id: 19917
record_id: 937
page_number: 1

