1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 9, 2019

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, September 9, 2019
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present: James Boyce, Sr. (arrived at 7:40 p.m.), Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent: Jonathan D. Garrett

Others present: Rev. Carlton Duck, Derek Norfield, Bob Sayre, Michelle Payne, Mayor Dwayne
Tuggle, Amherst; Mayor Treney Tweedy, Lynchburg; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary
Shanaberger, Town Manager; Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Public Hearing:

Mayor Harvey opened the public hearing and stated the purpose:

The purpose of this public hearing will be to receive public comments concerning
adoption by the Town Council of:

Section 1.  Chapter 126 of the Code of the Town of Appomattox is hereby amended to
add a new section following 126-16, to be known as Mobile Food Establishment/Unit
Ordinance as follows:

The intent of this Ordinance is to establish basic operational standards for mobile food
establishments as well as appropriate protections of public health, safety, and welfare for
their operation. Mobile food establishments are not by definition permanent fixtures to a
specific property. These regulations do not apply to “meals on wheels” program vehicles
or food home delivery services. As used in this Ordinance, the term “mobile food
establishment” shall mean all mobile food vehicles providing retail sales of food and
beverages, including food trucks, food trailers and food carts and any other mobile food
devices not affixed to real property.

A complete copy of the proposed ordinance is available at the Appomattox Town Office,
210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia or by calling Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of
Council at 434-352-8268.

Staff comments:
Mr. Shanaberger, Town Manager confirmed the rates as $25.00 for a one day only permit or
$100.00 for a one-year permit.  The ordinance is proposed as effective upon passage.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 9, 2019

There were no public comments.

Mayor Harvey closed the public hearing.

Mayor’s Comments:
Due to the stormy weather, Mayor Harvey deferred his comments.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Mayor Dwayne Tuggle, Town of Amherst & Mayor Treney Tweedy, City of Lynchburg
appeared to invite Council to attend the Central Virginia Planning District Strategic Direction
Roundtable 2019.  At this strategic meeting, elected officials and local government officials from
throughout the region will discuss and decide the next priority initiative for the Central Virginia
Planning District Commission.

The Strategic Director Roundtable will be on Thursday, October 17, 2019, at the Lynchburg
Regional Business Alliance building, 300 Lucado Street, Lynchburg.  Reception at 5:00 p.m. and
the meeting starts at 5:30 p.m.

Mayor Tuggle personally requests everyone attend.  Mayor Tweedy reminded everyone that your
voices will be heard.

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Timothy Garrett, Council voted to adopt the
consent agenda for September 9, 2019 as presented.  All members present voting aye. Motion
carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to amend Chapter 126 of the
Code of the Town of Appomattox, by adding a new section following 126-16, to be known as
Mobile Food Establishment/Unit Ordinance, effective immediately upon passage:

AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND the Code of the Town of Appomattox, Chapter 126 thereof,
entitled Licensing, to add a new section providing for Mobile Food Establishment/Unit
Ordinance.

Be it ordained by the Council of the Town of Appomattox as follows:

Section 1.  Chapter 126 of the Code of the Town of Appomattox is hereby amended to add a new
section following 126-16, to be known as Mobile Food Establishment/Unit Ordinance as follows:

§126-16.1 Intent

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 9, 2019

The intent of this Ordinance is to establish basic operational standards for mobile food
establishments as well as appropriate protections of public health, safety, and welfare for their
operation. Mobile food establishments are not by definition permanent fixtures to a specific
property. These regulations do not apply to “meals on wheels” program vehicles or food home
delivery services. As used in this Ordinance, the term “mobile food establishment” shall mean
all mobile food vehicles providing retail sales of food and beverages, including food trucks, food
trailers and food carts and any other mobile food devices not affixed to real property.

§126-16.2 General Requirements.

A.  For the purposes of this Ordinance, the terms “permittee”, “operator”, and “vendor”
all shall mean a licensed mobile food establishment, as defined hereinabove in the
preamble to this Ordinance.

B.  A mobile food establishment permit authorized by the Administrator shall be required
prior to the operation of a mobile food establishment on any real property parcel
within the town limits.

C.  Mobile food establishments will be required to pay $25 for a one day only permit or
$100 for a one-year permit. A mobile food establishment permit is valid through
December 31 of the year upon which the permit was issued. The permit fee may be
waived if the mobile food establishment is part of a special event.

D.  Mobile food establishments are required to collect and remit all applicable sales, meals
and other applicable taxes to the appropriate taxing entity. However, meals tax may not
be required to be collected during special events such as fairs, festivals, and similar
events that are approved by a temporary event permit.

E.  No permit authorized by this Section and issued by the Administrator shall authorize

a mobile food establishment to operate on or from a public street or sidewalk unless it
is part of a special event and the street, and sidewalk locations, have been approved by
the Administrator

F.  Mobile food carts for the retail sale of food or beverages are not permitted on

sidewalks.

G.  A mobile food establishment permit may be revoked by the Administrator at any time

due to the failure of the permit holder to comply with all requirements of this
Ordinance and other applicable federal, state, and local laws. Notice of revocation
shall be made in writing to the permit holder.

§126-16.3 Application Requirements

A.  A valid permit from the Virginia Department of Health stating that the mobile food

establishment meets all applicable standards. A valid health permit must be maintained
for the duration of the mobile food establishment permit.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 9, 2019

B.  The mobile food establishment vendor must secure and provide proof of insurance to
protect against liability for personal injury and property damage up to one million
dollars (1,000,000). Proof of this insurance shall be maintained in the mobile food
establishment and made readily available for inspection by the Administrator.

C.  Applicants for a mobile food establishment permit authorizing the operation of the

mobile food establishment on private property must provide:

1.  Information identifying the mobile food establishment unit

including, its make, model and license plate number, together with
a photograph of the mobile food establishment;

2.  Written permission from the owner(s) of the private properties

upon which the permittee will operate;

3.  Description of the days of the week and hours of operation for
proposed mobile food vending at the proposed property.

4.  A sketch to be approved by the Zoning Administrator, illustrating

access to the site, all parking areas, routes for ingress and
egress, placement of the mobile food establishment, distance from
the property lines, garbage receptacles and any other feature
associated with the mobile food establishment;

D.  A permit shall not be required for the location or setup of a mobile food establishment
on private property for the catering or providing of food service to a closed private
event (such as weddings, birthdays, picnics, etc.). During such an event no public
mobile food vending shall be permitted.

E.  A permit and fee may not be required for an individual mobile food establishment if the
operator is participating in an approved fair, festival, or similar event approved by a
temporary event permit pursuant to this Ordinance.

§126-16.4 Grant or Denial of Application

Review and consideration of an application shall be conducted in accordance with principles of
due process. Applications may be denied where an applicant fails to demonstrate that he, she or
it meets the conditions and requirements of this Ordinance, or where an applicant fails to comply
with applicable local, state or federal law. Any false statements, material omissions or
substantially misleading information provided in an application or furnished by an applicant in
connection with an application shall constitute grounds for any one or combination of the
following sanctions: permit denial; refusal to renew a permit; permit revocation; permit
suspension; and/or imposition of penalties.

§126-16.5 Location Requirements

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 9, 2019

A.  Mobile food establishments shall only be permitted in B-1 and B-2 districts that permit
a restaurant by-right. In District M-1 Industrial, mobile food establishments may be
allowed if approved by the Administrator. For special events, in districts other than B-1
and B-2, mobile food establishments may be allowed if approved by the Administrator.

B.  All mobile food establishments must be located at the designated location that has been

requested on the application and approved by the Administrator. Location
“freelancing” and changes of location are not permitted unless approved in writing by
the Administrator.

C.  Mobile food establishments may be located on off-street parking lots in locations that

do not block any drive aisles, ingress and egress routes from the property, or
designated fire lanes. In no event shall vendors be permitted to operate on grass, dirt or
other non-improved parking surfaces unless approved by the Administrator.

D.  Mobile food establishments and trailers shall be located a minimum distance of 15 feet

from the edge of any driveway, utility box or vaults, handicapped ramp, building
entrance, exit or emergency access/exit, emergency call box or fire hydrant.

E.  Mobile food establishments shall not be located within any area of the lot or parcel that

impedes, endangers, or interferes with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.

F.  Mobile food establishment shall not occupy any parking spaces required to fulfill the

minimum requirements of the principal business use, unless the principal business’ hours
of operation do not coincide with those of the mobile food establishment. Nor shall
any mobile food establishment occupy parking spaces that may be leased to another
business and used to fulfill its minimum parking requirements.

G.  Mobile food establishments shall not occupy or limit access to any handicap accessible

parking space.

§126-16.5 Operation Requirements

A.  No freestanding signage, banners, flags, pennants, or audio amplification shall be

permitted as part of the mobile food establishments operations.

B.  No mobile food establishment shall use flashing or moving lights as part of its operation.

Auxiliary or temporary lighting is not allowed.

C.  Two picnic tables with umbrellas with seating capacity of 6 people per table may be set

up for patron’s use. No tents or additional chairs are permitted.

D.  Outside of its regular business hours, the mobile food establishment shall not be stored

on the site of its operation unless pre-approved by the Administrator.

6  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 9, 2019

E.  The vendor is responsible for the proper disposal of waste and trash associated with the

operation of the mobile food establishment. Town trash receptacles are not to be used for
this purpose. Vendors shall provide portable trash receptacles and remove all waste and
trash from their approved location at the end of each day or as needed to maintain the
health and safety of the public. The vendor shall keep all areas of the permitted lot free
and clean of grease, trash, paper, cups, cans or other materials associated with
operation of the mobile food establishment.

F.  No liquid waste or grease is to be disposed on the ground, in tree pits, storm drains, on
sidewalks, streets, or other public space. Under no circumstances shall grease be
released or disposed of in the Town's sanitary sewer system. Failure to comply with this
section will result in an immediate revocation of the permit and potential liability for
damages and remediation costs.

G.  All equipment required for the operation of the mobile food establishment shall be

contained within, attached to, or within 20 feet of the mobile food establishment. All food
preparation, storage, and sales-distribution shall comply with all applicable Town, State,
and Federal Health Department sanitary and other applicable regulations.

H.  Only food and non-alcoholic beverages incidental to the permitted vendor shall be sold
from the mobile food establishment. Retail sales of merchandise are permitted as an
accessory use to the primary use of food sales.

I.  Signage:

(1) Signage may be imprinted on the exterior body of a

licensed mobile food establishment and include the use of an attached or
detached menu board.

(2) Advertisements for businesses other than the mobile food establishment may not

be utilized.

J.  The operator of a permitted mobile food establishment must conspicuously display all
approved permits and licenses for public inspection. Proof of commercial general
liability insurance for the mobile food establishment is required to be with the mobile
food unit at all times.

K.  All required taxes must be collected and paid to the appropriate entities.

L.  A three-foot wide clearance area must be maintained around

the mobile food establishment.

Section 2.  Effective date.

This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon passage.

7  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 9, 2019

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Timothy Garrett, Council voted to authorize
execution of the MCSJ contract with Edmunds & Associates, Inc. for computer system
software and/or hardware and to further authorize a budget resolution amending the FY 2020
Budget for funding in the amount of $52,443.00.

1.  Consideration to adopt a resolution amending the FY 2020 Operating Budget for the

General, Water, and Sewer Fund for the purchase and conversion of financial and utility
software and hardware

 WHEREAS, Section15.2-2507, Code of Virginia, allows that a governing body may amend the
budget from time to time

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby amend
the FY 2020 Operating Budget for the General, Water, and Sewer Fund for Computer Hardware
and Software.

General Fund Expenditures
10-4100-5526 – Computers – Administrative Department

Water Fund Expenditures
30-6000-5526  – Computer Expense  – Water Department

  $42,835

  $  4,804

Sewer Fund Expenditures
31-7000-5526 – Computer Expense – Sewer Department

                          $  4,804

Total Net Increase in Expenditure Budget                                                       $52,443

General Fund Revenues
10-3901-0000 Transfer from Reserves

                                            $42,835

Water Fund Revenues
30-3901-0000 Use of Fund Balance                                                                                   $  4,804

Sewerl Fund Revenues
31-5901-0000 Use of Beginning Balance

        $  4,804

Total Net Increase in Revenue Budget

        $52,443

8  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 9, 2019

SECTION XIII:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the Fiscal
Year 2020 budget amendments are hereby adopted, and the monies necessary to fund it are
hereby appropriated and shall be certified by the Clerk of Council and maintained as an archive
document with the official minutes of the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia.
Amended this 9th day of September 2019.

Attest:

Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following:

➢  There will be a meeting of the Town and the contractor for the

Meadowlark drainage project on Thursday, September 12, 2019.  The
project should be completed by the end of December 2019.

➢  Mr. Shanaberger has received one quote for the 4th of July fireworks.
Companies charge a premium for fireworks on July 4th.  It could cost
$20,000 for a 15-20-minute show.

➢  The necessary paperwork will be submitted to the Department of Historic

Resources regarding tax credits for the train depot.

➢  The final Historic Structures Report and renderings will be submitted to

the Town by the middle of November, before Thanksgiving.

➢  The Appomattox Downtown Revitalization committee will meet on

September 11, 2019 at 5:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Train Depot to begin
discussing the timeline for the grant project.

➢  The Town EDA will meet next week, September 17,2 019.
➢  Mr. Shanaberger will also reach out to Katie Conner with the Virginia
Tourism Corporation to expedite the information gathered at the
community meeting on August 8, 2019.

9  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 9, 2019

Council Concerns:
Mr. Conner stated that Council needs to act on the request to open a Welcome Center at the
American Civil War Museum before there is nothing to get.  Mayor Harvey concurred state we
need to do something to capture the market.  We are losing numbers every year.  Mrs. Puckette
stated the concept is the most economical.  The American Civil War Museum is a centralized
location.

Mr. Conner would like to see the flagpole painted at the Town Office and the flags taken down
nightly.

Mrs. Puckette expressed concerns of the deer population in Town.  One of her neighbors in
particular is having a problem with them.  Mr. Shanaberger will discuss with USDA.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. James Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at 7:55
pm. All members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

