1  Regular Council Meeting

October 14, 2008

At the Regular Council Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on October 14, 2008 at
7:30 pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street,
Appomattox, Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council
members Bryan J. Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, John T. “Plicky” Williams, C. Lewis
McDearmon, Jr., Karl E. Carter and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.   Also in attendance were Sheila
Palamar, Beckie Nix, Rev. Bruce Johnson, Joseph Day, Stephanie James, Bill Burke, Debbie
Baine, Sarah Watson, Paul Michael Raymond, Barbara McLaughlin, Wanda Jobe, Tom Utz,
Lucy Harvey, Sarah Robertson, Ben Harvey, Cliff Harvey, Chad Millner, Nina Beasley, Hazel
Thomas, Joyce Bennett, Bob Hopkins, Mary Lou Spiggle, Laura Coflin and Barbara Shelton,
Derek Norfield, Carlton Duck, David Garrett, Town Manager and Roxanne Paulette, Town
Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Rev. Bruce Johnson, Memorial United Methodist Church gave the invocation.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. McDearmon and with all members
present voting “aye”, Council approved the consent agenda dated October 14, 2008.  Motion
carried.

Public Comments:
Bill Burke – Appomattox resident
Mr. Burke spoke in favor of item #1 on the council agenda, the managerial contract proposed by
the Lynchburg Regional Convention and Visitor’s Bureau.

On April 10, 1865 – that’s when we should have started the tourism efforts in Appomattox.  The
town has done a good job thus far, do not stop that effort.  I’ve been told it will save $80,000 -
$100,000 a year – that’s $10,000/month.  If we can get the efforts of meals tax and lodging tax
going up we won’t have to raise taxes.  Don’t stop the ball from turning.

Joseph Day – Town resident
Good evening to all.  Mr. Day addressed council concerning problems.  When did tradition begin
superseding the law?  Why does this have to be this way?  Jesus was a carpenter – to build a way
for others and everyone.  There should be fairness and opportunity to all – personal problem –
was told one thing and then another was done.  We should share and care for all of us or none of
us are going to get anywhere.

Mayor Harvey thanked everyone who worked with the Railroad Festival this year.  Mayor
Harvey put out a plea for help from the community.  “We need to help the committee get
stronger particularly with numbers”.  Please contact the Town Office, Council members or the
Mayor, we really need more helpers.  The Town Staff really pitched in, the guys did a good job
with clean up and the Fire Department and Rescue Squad also did a great job.

Mayor Harvey also publically apologized for the political signs that should not have been
allowed in the parade but a local business left with the political sign on the float but was not
aware of the policy.

2  Regular Council Meeting

October 14, 2008

Appearances:
None

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to accept the
managerial contract as presented by the Lynchburg Regional Convention and Visitor’s Bureau
for six (6) months.  VOTE:  Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Baine – no, Williams – no,
Carter – no, Jamerson-Scruggs – no.  Motion failed 4 to 2.

On a motion by Mr. Baine, seconded by Mr. Williams, Council voted to counter offer the
managerial contract proposal by striking the paragraph that read:

Services would also include the establishment of a 7-member board to act as the
Appomattox Tourism Advisory Council (ATAC).  This council will meet bi-monthly to
hear reports from the Director, discuss the direction and progress of the program, advise
on current issues facing Appomattox and its tourism program, and act as an advocacy
group for the Town of Appomattox Department of Tourism.  This council will be made up
of members representing a cross section of the local tourism stakeholders, and will be
appointed by the council with input from the Tourism Director:  Examples of such
representation should include: the National Park Service, local lodging, local retail,
local attractions, industry events, (i.e.: Sesquicentennial Committee) local business, and
a regional interest partner.

and by adding a paragraph that outlines the intent of the Town Council to immediately seek a
full-time Director of Tourism to start at the end of the six (6) month term.
VOTE:  Baine – aye, Williams – aye, Mayberry – no, McDearmon – no, Carter – no, Jamerson-
Scruggs – no.  Motion failed 4 to 2.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to direct staff to
advertise for a full-time Director of Tourism.  VOTE:  Jamerson-Scruggs – aye, Carter – aye,
Baine – aye, Williams – aye, McDearmon – no, Mayberry – no.  Motion carried 4 to 2.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Baine and with all members present voting
“aye”, Council adopted the following resolution:

 Appomattox County Application to the
Virginia Department of Transportation – Transportation Enhancement Program

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox is committed to increasing pedestrian access to resources
with the Town and County and is committed to increasing opportunities for passive recreation
and increased quality of life for its residents; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox, in partnership with Appomattox County and the
Appomattox Court House National Historical Park, formed the Appomattox Heritage and

3  Regular Council Meeting

October 14, 2008

Recreational Trail Planning Team, AHRTPT, to investigate opportunities for creating pedestrian
connections within the community; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox has adopted The Appomattox Heritage and Recreational
Trail Plan – A Vision of Connectivity as a guiding document to develop pedestrian travel within
the community; and

WHEREAS, the Town is developing the Town of Appomattox Pedestrian Access plan through
awarded the Virginia Multimodal Planning Grant Program to expand safe pedestrian routes in
the Town;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Town of Appomattox does hereby support the
application by Appomattox County to the Virginia Department of Transportation Enhancement
Program to develop the multiuse trail that will allow for pedestrian movement from the Town to
the Appomattox County Community Park.

Motion carried.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. Carter and with all members present
voting “aye”, Council voted to adopt the following resolution:

The Appomattox Greenway Masterplan- A Vision for your Future

WHERAS, the Town of Appomattox is committed to the preservation and enhancement of the historic,
cultural and resources within the Town; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox is committed to increasing pedestrian access to resources within the
Town and to resources within the adjoining county and is committed to increasing the opportunities for
recreation and leisure activities; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox, in partnership with Appomattox County and the Appomattox Court
House National Historical Park, formed the Appomattox Heritage and Recreational Trail Planning
Team, AHRTPT, to investigate opportunities for creating pedestrian connections within the community;
and

WHEREAS, the Town and County received technical assistance through the National Park Service
Rivers, Trails, and Conservation Assistance Program to assist in developing a connection vision for the
Appomattox Community; and

WHEREAS, the National Park Service and the American Society of Landscape Architects formed a
partnership to promote assistance to local governments to promote greenway planning projects; and

WHEREAS, the Richmond landscape architecture firm of design forum Incorporated, through public
input and planning expertise, developed The Appomattox Greenways Master Plan – A Vision for your
Future, a comprehensive master plan that highlights both on-road and off-road pedestrian connections
that will enhance the community resources and provide healthy lifestyle and quality of life benefits to the
community;

4  Regular Council Meeting

October 14, 2008

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE APPOMATTOX TOWN COUNCIL that the Town of
Appomattox adopts The Appomattox Greenway Masterplan – A Vision for your Future.

Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Williams, seconded by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs and with all members present,
Council voted to adopt the Action Plan for the amended Consent Order for the Department of
Environmental Quality at the Trickling Filter Plant as presented by town staff and authorized the
draft be amended if the drain field option is allowed.  Motion carried.

Council Concerns

Mr. Mayberry voiced concern that a date has not been set to meet with two board members of the
County of Appomattox (Board of Supervisors) concerning the negotiations of the waterline.

Mr. Garrett informed the Council that the County Attorney has advised the board members that
any meeting should be advertised and open to the public.

On a motion by Mr. Baine, seconded by Mr. Williams, Council voted to conduct an open forum
meeting the Board of Supervisors concerning the offers to each governing body regarding the
negotiations of the Rt. 460 Waterline from Concord to Appomattox.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. Carter and with all members present
voting “aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 9:10 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

