1  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
April 25, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, February 28, 2017 at
6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Clarence Monday, Interim Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of
Council

Mayor Harvey called the workshop meeting to order.

Mr. Monday reported that an applicant called and is unable to attend tonight.  His interview will
be rescheduled to Monday, May 8, 2017 at 6:00 p.m.

There was a 15-minute recess.

Mayor Harvey reconvened the meeting.

Mayor Harvey announced that Mr. Phillip Jamerson has invited Town Council to a fundraising
event at the hotel on April 28, 2017 at 6:00 p.m.  Mr. Monday cautioned the Council Members of
meeting requirements under the Freedom of Information Act.

Discussion of FY 2018 Budget
Mr. Monday advised Council of the FY 2018 salary adjustments for Town employees.
Employees receiving a satisfactory or better rating on performance evaluations would receive a
2.7% merit increase.  The remainder of the funds would be spent to correct grade and
compression issues/problems.

A trailer crash cushion is needed for Public Works activities.  Mr. Elder reported he has found
one for approximately $28,000.

Town Council gave consensus to proceed with filling the Information Technology Technician
position.  Mr. Monday reported he hopes to have someone hired by June 1, 2017.

Mr. Monday reported that interviews for the position of Town Treasurer will begin tomorrow,
April 26, 2017.

Republic Services would like to exercise their option to extend their contract for an additional 3
years.  There will be a 6% increase for FY 2018 and FY 2019 and 2020 would be based on the
Consumer Price Index (CPI).

The garbage contract extension will be placed on the May 8, 2017 Regular Council meeting
agenda for official consideration.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
April 25, 2017

Mr. Elder will touch base with Mr. Pendleton regarding the structural analysis of the depot.

Mr. Elder continues to rent a generator for the Public Works department.  The cost could be
$40,000 – 50,000.  It is not currently in the budget or the FY 2018 proposed budget.  Mr. Garrett
stated Mr. Elder possibly needed a 20KW generator for the Town Office.

Mrs. Casto reported that Sheriff Letterman will be attending the May Council meeting.

Mrs. Casto reported that flowers were sent to the Gabathuler family.

Courtland Field Update
Mr. Garrett reported that the committee has met several times.  A Memorandum of
Understanding has been discussed.  Mr. Jamerson is working to have a document drawn up to
make sure the property remains a park.  Mr. Jamerson is also working on a theme for the park.  A
budget is being developed.

The County is going to have the donations funneled through the EDA or 501 (c) 3, one way or
the other.

[Ms. Finch left at 6:25 p.m.]

Council Concerns:
Council discussed the possibility of using the 1865 Foundation as a vehicle to accept the statues
from other localities.

Closed Session
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose
of interviewing prospective candidates for the position of Town Manager with the Town of
Appomattox, specifically being prospective candidate B and for the purpose of discussion
prospective candidates for employment, specifically being applicants for the position of Town
Manager.

Vote – Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch –absent, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Council Member Conner made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

3  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
April 25, 2017

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote – Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – absent, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Mayor Harvey read the following statement:
The Town Council, as authorized by Virginia Code Section 2.2-3712 (B), within fifteen (15)
days of said announcement, will be interviewing potential Town Manager candidates, in Closed
Session, at undisclosed time(s) and location(s).  Following such interview(s), the Council will
certify the same at its next regular schedule meeting.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 8:35 pm. All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

