1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 10, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, April 10, 2017 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Ashlie Walter, News & Advance, Susan Adams, Appomattox County
Administrator; Doug Hudgins, CHA, Inc.; Donna Witt & Daniel Witt, Teresa Gabrielson, Times
Virginian; Rick Butler, Carlton Duck, Brian Moore, Clarence Monday, Interim Town Manager
and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Regular Council meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Public Appearances
Doug Hudgins, CHA, Inc. gave a presentation and update on the Inflow and Infiltration of the
Town’s sewer system project.  The bids for the project are due on May 2, 107.  Mr. Hudgins will
be back on May 8, 2017 to attend the Council meeting.

Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Harvey read the annual Arbor Day Proclamation and Mr. Rick Butler presented items to
the Town in recognition of their continued dedication and participation in the Arbor Day
program.

TOWN OF APPOMATTOX
ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS,

in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of Agriculture that a
special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and

WHEREAS,   this holiday, called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of more than a

million trees in Nebraska, and

WHEREAS,   Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and

WHEREAS,   trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and water, cut heating

and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air, produce life-giving
oxygen, and

WHEREAS,   trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes, fuel for our

fire and countless other wood products, and

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 10, 2017

WHEREAS,   trees increase property values, enhance the economic vitality of business areas,

and beautify communities, and

WHEREAS,   trees, wherever they are planted, are a source of joy and spiritual renewal.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Paul Harvey, Mayor of the Town of Appomattox, do hereby recognize
the 28th day of April, 2017 (the last Friday in April) as our Annual Arbor
Day celebration and I urge all citizens to celebrate Arbor Day and to
support efforts to protect our trees and woodlands, and

FURTHER,   I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote the well-being of

this and future generations.

Consent Agenda-
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to adopt the consent agenda
for April 10, 2017 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Unfinished Business
None

New Business
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to approve the payment
request #1 of the 4 annual payments that were provided as an Economic Stimulus Grant in the
Performance Agreement between the Town of Appomattox, the Town of Appomattox Economic
Development Authority and COJANA, a Limited Liability Corporation in the amount of
$25,330.68 to COJANA, a Limited Liability Corporation as the owner of the Appomattox Inn
and Suites and also consideration in accepting payment request #1 that COJANA has met its
responsibilities as noted in the Performance Agreement dated March 13, 2015.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Council Standing Committee reports
On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to authorize
advertising the FY 2018 Annual Budget for the Town of Appomattox as presented.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Citizen Comment Period
None

Town Managers Report-
None

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 10, 2017

Council Concerns:
Mrs. Puckette sat down with Mr. John Redding several months ago to talk about the Chamber of
Commerce and he was most open to some of the reasons why we were not open to his proposal
before.  He took my words to heart and I received an email from him last week and I asked if I
could share it.  Basically, he has been working on a seminar for their merchants the first of May
to discuss how to market themselves and their businesses better.  He also indicated they are
going to change the name of Friday Cheerz and make it a more family friendly event.  Mr.
Redding seemed very open to the comments and took them to heart and I just wanted to share
this with you.

Closed Session
On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council
voted to convene in Closed Session, Pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950,
as amended, for the purpose of discussion of prospective candidates for employment, specifically
being applicants for the position of Town Manager.
Vote – Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Councilmember Garrett made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Councilmember Finch and Council by the following recorded vote
adopted the motion.

Vote – Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 10, 2017

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 8:55 pm.  All
members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

