ref: reel_02_0775
date: 1974-11-01
content: 4. In those instances where a water customer wishes to install a full flow cold water cut-off valve the water will be cut off and on at no cost to the water customer.

5. That the Town of Appomattox has the right to demand cash payment of water bills from customers who have exhibited bad faith in the payment of same by check.

6. If water service is cut off to any customer in order that a leak may be repaired on the premises of the customer, the Town of Appomattox has the right to require that a full-flow cold water cut-off valve be installed before water service is resumed.

Motion carried. Ayes 5 Nays 0

Slagle reported that as an interim agreement that the VEPCO negotiations steering committee had recommended that the old contract rate plus fossil fuel surcharge be paid on all electric bills after November 1, 1974.

Council voted to accept the recommendation of the Steering Committee.

The request for additional trailer connections by Mr. Johnny Simpson to the Town water system was referred to the water committee.

Slagle reported that the lot owned by T. Hunter Dickerson on Harrell Street could be rented for $240.00 per year and could be purchased for $5000.00.

Conner made the motion seconded by Guill that the Town attempt to purchase a 12 month option on this property. Motion carried.

Spiggle made the motion seconded by House that the Appomattox Town Council commend Mr. Ben Marshall upon the renovations to his store on Main Street.

On a motion by Spiggle seconded by Guill the Council indicated its support of the "National Guard" and the "Army Reserve" in employment practices and in personnel rules and regulations. Motion carried.

Slagle explained the need to include the remainder of Dogwood Street in the 0.25 mile allocation of street to be turned over to the Highway Department for fiscal year 1974-1975.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion seconded by Guill to accept the following resolution:
chunk_id: 20226
record_id: 1246
page_number: 1

