ref: reel_02_0773
date: 1974-11-25
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, November 25, 1974 with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, M. J. House, Jr., Ronnie Spiggle, T. E. Conner, and Burke Guill.

Also present were: Mrs. Linda Stewart, Mrs. Paige Nolen, Mr. James A. Nolen, and Mr. Will Cook.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

Mrs. Paige Nolen and Mrs. Linda Stewart appeared to request that the Town Co-Sponsor the "Third Annual Historic Appomattox Railroad Day Festival" with the Appomattox Junior Women's Club, during the first week-end in October 1975. Mr. Spiggle made the motion to Co-sponsor the "Festival" with the Appomattox Junior Women's Club during the first week-end in October 1975, seconded by M. J. House, Jr. Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Jim Nolen appeared before Council to discuss the problem of odor emanating from and the nuisance that it is creating for residents in the area surrounding the lagoon. He also presented a "petition of complaint" to Council signed by 48 residents within the area of the lagoon. Council discussed this problem and concluded that the only logical alternative was to abandon the lagoon. Mr. Spiggle made the motion to set up a meeting with Mr. Edwards, Chairman of the State Water Control Board to discuss the upgrading the construction grant priority of the Town of Appomattox, seconded by Mr. Conner.

Ayes 5 Nays 0 Motion carried.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

The minutes of a Sewer Committee meeting and a Fire Committee meeting were read.

Mr. Spiggle made the motion that the Town adopt the C.V.P.D.C. Land Use Plan for Appomattox, seconded by R. C. Hubbard.

Ayes 3 Nays 0 Abstaining 2

Mr. Marvin House reported the Fire Committee had recommended the Annual Firemen's Banquet be held on December 16, 1974 at 6:30 P.M. at Parkway Restaurant and that the Town donate the usual $5.00 per firemen to the Fire Department.

Mr. House also reported the committee discussed the radio communication system. It is their recommendation that we keep the radio system on the 46.58 frequency and take steps to make this system fully operational. The Town has also taken steps to obtain some radios from Transcontinental Gas Pipeline Company.
chunk_id: 20224
record_id: 1244
page_number: 1

