ref: reel_03_0848
date: 1983-10-18
content: Regular meeting - October 18, 1983

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Tuesday, October 18, 1983, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, T. W. Lawson, and S. E. Carter.

Others present were: Warren Zick, Frances Abbitt, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the Agenda, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council approved the minutes of the September 12, 1983 meeting and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Warren Zick appeared before Council to request an equitable charge for sewer on his water bill. Mr. Zick informed Council he used the water for irrigation purposes.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to make no adjustment on Mr. Zick's water bill, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to approve the Financial Statement for September, 1983, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

It was general consensus of Council that we wait until after the first of the year to see about registering the Depot with the Virginia Landmarks Commission.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to insulate the Rooms 1-2-3-4, of the Depot at a quoted price of $429.00 and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

Mayor Spiggle informed Council that Mr. Stewart did not want to rent the storage space in the Depot.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to reserve the room at the end of the Depot for Railroad Festival and rent out the storage space for $100.00 per month for the full twelve months.

Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Webb-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

Council was informed that the proposed Well on John Cole's property was abandoned. Mr. Cole will be paid the $200.00 as per the agreement.

Mr. Britton reported to Council that the State Water Control Board is going to allow the Town to spend up to 70,000 which we have from the Apartments as our 25% of the 75% grant because of delays in the design.
chunk_id: 20865
record_id: 1885
page_number: 1

