1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 12, 2019

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, August 12, 2019 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present: Jonathan D. Garrett, James Boyce, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett,
Steven T. Conner.

Absent: Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present: Michelle Payne (Times-Virginian), Susan Adams, Bob Sayre, Carlton Duck, Jodi
Thomas, Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Roxanne W. Casto,
Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey commented on the community meeting held at the Visitor’s Center on August 8,
2019 regarding the proposed Welcome Center and current Visitor’s Center.  The Virginia
Tourism Corporation will be helping the Town make better informed decisions regarding the
topic.

Jammin’ in the Park event will be held at the Courtland Festival Park on August 17, 2019 from
6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. Timothy Garrett, seconded by Mr. Jonathan Garrett, Council voted to adopt
the consent agenda for August 12, 2019 as presented.  All members present voting aye. Motion
carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
Council provided consensus to continue moving forward with the original motion to advertise a
public hearing to amend Chapter 126-16 of the Code of the Town of Appomattox on September
9, 2019 for a fee of $100 per year or $25 for a one day only permit for mobile food
establishments/units.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to donate the enclosed
trailer to the Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department.  Vote:  Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner
– yes, T. Garrett – abstain, J. Garrett – abstain.  Motion carried 3-0-2.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 12, 2019

New Business:
None

Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following:

➢  The Appomattox Town Planning Commission met last week to kick off the

updating of the Town’s comprehensive plan.  A survey will be distributed to the
community, posted on the Town website and Facebook page.  The surveys are
due on September 20th.

➢  The Town Economic Development Authority meeting for August 13, 2019 was

cancelled.

➢  The joint session of the Appomattox Town Council and Appomattox County
Board of Supervisors was cancelled due to the lack of limited attendance
expected.  He and the County Administrator will work on dates for rescheduling
the meeting.

➢  It is not too late to register for the annual VML Conference in October.
➢  Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. has completed the survey work on Lee Grant Avenue.  One

concept is complete.  Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. is working on another concept.
➢  There may be some community involvement regarding the vulture problem

on/near Oakleigh Avenue.  There are a few neighbors assisting with the feral cat
colony.

Council Concerns:
Mr. Boyce voiced concerns regarding the amount of traffic on Rt. 727 – Red House Road before
and after school.  Mayor Harvey voiced concerns regarding traffic at Ferguson Street and
Pumping Station Road.  Drivers are speeding and not paying attention.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Timothy Garrett, seconded by Mr. James Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at
8:00 pm. All members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

