1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 10, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, October 10, 2017
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., M. Erin Finch, Steven T.
Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.  Mary Lou Spiggle arrived at 7:45 p.m.

Others present:  Bill Jamerson, S. L. Ferguson, Marvin Mitchell, Linda Lipscomb, Derek
Norfield, Alive Media TV; Frank A. Wright, Jr., Town Attorney; Robert Vogel; Kim Ray, Town
Treasurer; Jeff Elder, Facilities Manager; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and Roxanne W.
Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed all visitors.

Derek Norfield gave the invocation and led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Public Appearances
None

Mayor’s Comments
Mayor Harvey reminded everyone of the 45th Annual Historic Appomattox Railroad Festival this
weekend, October 14 & 15, 2017.  He also thanked Mr. Bill Jamerson, who was in the audience,
for all his assistance getting the Courtland Festival park ready for the weekend activities.  The
next issue coming up for the park will be the memorandum of understanding which Mayor
Harvey, Mr. Shanaberger, Mr. Elder and Mrs. Adams will be working on together.

Consent Agenda
On a motion by Ms. Finch, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for October 10, 2017 with the addition of New Business #2 – Consideration to amend the
Town of Appomattox, Greater Meadowlark Neighborhood Improvement Project, Housing
Program Design, CIG #15-14as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Mr. Mitchell, Chairman of the Town’s Planning Commission reconvened the Planning
Commission meeting from October 5, 2017.

Unfinished Business
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 8 of the Code of Virginia, 1950 as amended, for the
purpose of consultation with legal counsel, such matter being the legal interpretation of
requirements of the sign ordinance as applied to the Chamber of Commerce’s pending
application and as generally applicable.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – absent, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 10, 2017

On a motion by Mr. Ferguson, seconded by Mrs. Lipscomb, the Planning commission voted to
convene in closed session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 8 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel regarding specific legal matters
requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel, such matter being the legal interpretation
of requirements of the sign ordinance as applied to the  Chamber of Commerce’s pending
application and as generally applicable.

Vote:  Mitchell – aye, Ferguson – aye, Lipscomb – aye.  Carson – absent.  Motion carried 3-0.

The meeting was reopened to the public.

Town Council Member McDearmon made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council has convened a closed meeting on this date,
pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia
Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by the Town
Council that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Town Council member Spiggle and the Town Council Commission
by the following recorded vote adopted the motion:

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Planning Commission member Ferguson made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Planning Commission has convened a closed meeting on
this date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by the Town
Planning Commission that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Planning Commission
hereby certifies that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters
lawfully exempted from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the
closed meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 10, 2017

matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or
considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Planning Commission member Lipscomb and the Town Planning
Commission by the following recorded vote adopted the motion:

Vote:  Mitchell – aye, Ferguson – aye, Lipscomb – aye.  Carson – absent.  Motion carried 3-0.

New Business

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to adopt an Ordinance of
Vacation for the unopened portion of Autumn Lane consisted of property in the Town of
Appomattox more particularly identified as “0.320 Ac.”, and a part of the opened portion of
Autumn Lane consisted of property in such jurisdiction more particularly identified as “0.102
Ac.”, both of such parcels being shown upon a plat of survey entitled “Composite Boundary
Survey, 5.322 Acres Total, Drawn for Jamerson Real Estate, Inc.,” made by Michael Ray Goin,
L. S., dated May 12, 2017, revised August 21, 2017, and to be recorded in the Clerk’s Office of
the Appomattox County Circuit Court (the “New Plat”).

Ordinance of Vacation

[Portion of Autumn Lane]

WHEREAS, by plat dated May 30, 1924 and recorded in the Appomattox County

Circuit Court Clerk’s Office in Deed Book 24, page 184, a thirty foot (30’) wide right of way
now known as Autumn Lane was created, a portion of which was never opened as a road (the
“Original Plat”);

WHEREAS, the unopened portion of Autumn Lane consisted of property in the Town of

Appomattox more particularly identified as “0.320 Ac.,” and a part of the opened portion of
Autumn Lane consisted of property in such jurisdiction more particularly identified as “0.102
Ac.,” both of such parcels being shown upon a plat of survey entitled “Composite Boundary
Survey, 5.322 Acres Total, Drawn for Jamerson Real Estate, Inc.” made by Michael Ray Goin,
L.S., dated May 12, 2017, revised August 21, 2017, and to be recorded in the clerk’s office of the
Appomattox County Circuit Court (the “New Plat”);

WHEREAS, the unopened portion of Autumn Lane as described above has never been

opened, and there is no further need for the unopened portion to be opened;

WHEREAS, there is no further need for the opened portion of Autumn Lane as

described above to remain open;

WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Town of Appomattox, acting by and through its Town

Council, to vacate that portion of the New Plat identified as “0.320 Ac.” and as “0.102 Ac.” by
Ordinance of Vacation in accordance with the provisions of Virginia Code Ann. Sec. 15.2-2272;

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 10, 2017

WHEREAS, the effect of such vacation shall be to vest such title as the Town of
Appomattox may possess to the centerline of such unopened road so vacated, free and clear of
any rights of the public, but subject to the rights of the owners of any public utility installations
which have been previously erected therein, in accordance with the provisions of Virginia Code
Ann. Sec. 15.2-2274, equally in the owners of abutting properties.  As all abutting properties are
owned by Jamerson Real Estate, Inc., the title to the 0.320 acres and to the 0.102 acres shall be
vested in Jamerson Real Estate, Inc.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, that in accordance with the provisions of

Virginia Code Ann. Sec. 15.2-2272 the unopened portion of Autumn Lane, identified on the New
Plat as “0.320 Ac.”, and that part of the opened portion of Autumn Lane identified on the New
Plat as “0.102 Ac.,” shall be, and the same hereby are, vacated, a public hearing thereon
having been duly advertised in accordance with the provisions of Virginia Code Ann. Sec. 15.2-
2204;

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that a certified copy of this Ordinance of Vacation

shall be recorded after the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date hereof, unless appealed to
the Circuit Court for the County of Appomattox, Virginia, and thereafter if this Ordinance of
Vacation is affirmed by said Court, in the Clerk’s Office of the Circuit Court of Appomattox
County, Virginia;

BE IT FURTHER ORDAINED, that in accordance with the provisions of Virginia
Code Ann. Sec. 15.2-2274, the recordation of this Ordinance of Vacation as required in the
preceding paragraph shall operate to destroy the force and effect of any previously created
boundary lines of that portion of Autumn Lane so described above and so vacated and to vest
such title as the Town of Appomattox may possess free and clear of any rights of the public, but
subject to the rights of the owners of any public utility installations which have been previously
erected therein, in accordance with the provisions of Virginia Code Ann. Sec. 15.2-2274, in
Jamerson Real Estate, Inc.

The vote was:

Aye: Garrett, McDearmon, Spiggle, Finch, Conner, Puckette
Nay: None
Abstain: None

On a motion by Ms. Finch, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to amend the Town of
Appomattox, Greater Meadowlark Neighborhood Improvement Project, Housing Program
Design, CIG #15-14.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to add NB #3 – To receive
a recommendation of the Appomattox Town Planning Commission to deny the Conditional Use
Permit application for an off-premise sign by the Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 10, 2017

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to accept the
recommendation of the Appomattox Town Planning Commission to deny the request of the
Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce Conditional Use Permit for an off-premise sign.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Citizen Comment Period – none

Staff Report:

Mrs. Ray reported she is working to schedule the FY 2017 Annual Audit for the first

week of December 2017.  She is also planning an upgrade/enhancement of the Logic Software
for November/December 2017.  She is preparing a financial update for Council at the October
24, 2017 Workshop meeting.

Mr. Elder discussed the need to have the Oakleigh Avenue and Cawthorne Street utility

line repairs properly engineered.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to approve

$18,000 for engineering services.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Mrs. Casto – none

Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following activities:
-  The Request for Proposals for the Depot are due on November 2, 2017.
-  The Kiddie Park bathroom design may need additional engineering costs for a site

plan to include the splash pad.  Council provided consensus to pursue engineering and
hold the bid package until the engineering is complete.

-  Mr. Elder and Mr. Shanaberger met with representatives of Appomattox Christian

Academy to discuss the preliminary stages of the water line extension.
-  Received a request from Shentel for additional equipment at the water tower.
-  Received information from a local citizen witnessing a company taking water from a

fire hydrant without supervision.

-  Has been contacted by a group who would like to hold car cruise in events on private

property in the Town.

-  The pet waste stations are being evaluated by the Public Works Department.
-  Senator Mark Peake invited Council to attend a roundtable meeting on Monday,
October 16, 2017 at 5:00 p.m. at the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
meeting room.

-  During the last 24-48 hours the Public Works Department has been dealing with

sewer line back-up and a water leak.

Council Concerns:
Ms. Spiggle reminded everyone of the Appomattox Railroad Festival this weekend October 14
and 15, 2017.

Mrs. Puckette thanked the staff and Mr. Shanaberger for moving the Town forward.

6  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 10, 2017

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adjourn at 8:55
p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

