1  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
October 24, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, October 24, 2017 at 6:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Council Members present:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Steven T. Conner and
Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent:  M. Erin Finch and Timothy W. Garrett

Others present:  Jeff Elder, Facilities Manager; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger,
Town Manager and Roxanne Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the Council Workshop meeting to order.

Staff Reports

Kim Ray, Town Treasurer presented financial statements from July and August 2017.  She and
Mrs. Glover will continue to track meals, lodging and cigarette tax.  Mrs. Ray also presented
some information on the current financial software program including a scheduled upgrade with
the current provider to give the Town the latest versions of their software.

Mr. Elder, Facilities Manager informed Council of a “Fats, Oils & Grease Program” he would be
presenting at the next regular meeting for their consideration.

Mr. Shanaberger, Town Manager provided an update to Council on the following activities:
-  The roof of the Town Office building needs to be addressed.  There are three (3)

possible ways to fix the roof.

-  One architect attended the walk through of the Depot.
-  Received a few requests from individuals/groups to make appearances to Council

over the next few months.

o  The food pantry will attend the November 28, 2017 Workshop meeting.
o  Region 2000, Gary Christie will attend the January 2018 Regular meeting.
-  Anticipating the engineering site study for the Kiddie Park by the end of the week.
-
Informed Council of the plans for a micro-brewery in Town.  He is working with a
wastewater expert on the sewer discharges and he and the Town Attorney are creating
a list of requirements to accompany the permitted use zoning application.
-  Food truck/Itinerant Merchants – Mr. Shanaberger will do more research but

requested Council remain open to a different rate structure for licensing requirements.

-  Mayor Harvey, Sheriff Letterman, Susan Adams and Mr. Shanaberger will be
traveling to Lexington to discuss their permitting process for parades and
demonstrations.

Roxanne Casto presented to Council the “Experience Appomattox” concept of “Whoville” for
the theme of Christmas in Downtown Appomattox on Saturday, December 2, 2017.  While

2  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
October 24, 2017

Council was supportive of the concept, they were not willing to purchase the multi-colored lights
that intertwine the garland on the lamp posts on Main Street.

Council Concerns:
None

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adjourn at 7:50 pm.
All members present voting aye. Motion carried 4-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

