1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, October 26, 2021, at 6:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Vice-Mayor Garrett, presiding.

Town Council present:  Aaron Tilton, Nathan A. Simpson, Timothy W. Garrett, James J. Boyce,
Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Tracey Shaw, Bond Counsel; Sam Vance, Town Attorney; Kyle Lerner,
Wastewater Manager; Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Chad
Hodges, Hurt & Proffitt, Inc.; Jeff Westbrook, Times Virginian; Gary Shanaberger, Town
Manager; Kim Ray, Treasurer; and Roxanne Casto, Clerk

The meeting was also broadcast LIVE on the Town of Appomattox Facebook page.

Vice-Mayor Garrett called to order the Council Workshop meeting.

$500,000 Water System Improvement General Obligation Bond, Series 2021
Vice-Mayor Garrett opened the public hearing.

Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk stated the purpose:

NOTICE is hereby given of a public hearing before Town Council on the issuance of the Town’s
$500,000 Water System Improvement General Obligation Bond, Series 2021 to be held at the
Town Hall, 210 Linden St., Appomattox, Virginia on October 26, 2021 at 6:00 PM. Interested
persons may attend and express their views.

Public Comments:  None

Vice-Mayor Garrett closed the hearing.

Proposed Amendment to the Town’s Charter
Vice-Mayor Garrett opened the next public hearing.

Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk stated the purpose:

TO THE CITIZENS OF THE TOWN OF APPOMATTOX

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that at its meeting to be held on Tuesday, October 26, 2021

at the hour of 6:00 p.m. in the Town Council Meeting Room, Appomattox Town Office, 210
Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia, the Appomattox Town Council, pursuant to Va. Code Ann.
§15.2-202, will conduct a public hearing on a proposed amendment to the Town’s Charter,
which is more particularly set forth as follows:

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

§ 1  Election and appointment of officers, etc. shall be amended to read:

There shall be elected by the qualified voters of said town one elector thereof who shall
be denominated the mayor, and six electors, who shall be denominated the councilmen
of said town.  The mayor and six councilmen shall constitute the council of said town.
The town council shall have the authority to appoint or employ a town clerk, a treasurer,
a commissioner of revenue, a town manager, a health or sanitary officer, and such other
officers as it may deem appropriate for the proper conduct of government of the town.
The same person may serve in one or more of such capacities. The town council shall
have the power to fix the salaries and compensation of said employees and appointees as
necessary, but such compensation shall be fixed by said council before the individual
chosen shall assume the duties of office.   The town council may also appoint
committees and boards and prescribe and fix their duties.

 § 4  Terms of office - vacancy and how filled shall be amended to read:

The mayor and members of council in office on July 1, 2021 shall continue in office
until the expiration of the terms for which they were elected or until their successors are
elected and qualified.  At the next election of members to the town council held on the
Tuesday following the first Monday in November 2022, the three council candidates
receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected for four year terms, and the three
council candidates receiving the next greatest number of votes and the mayor shall be
elected for two year terms.  Thereafter, the council members shall be elected for terms of
four years, and the mayor shall be elected for a term of two years, or until their
successors are elected and qualified.  An election shall be held on the Tuesday following
the first Monday in November 2024 for the three council seats first expiring and for the
mayor, and on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November 2026 for the three
council seats next expiring and for the mayor.  Elections thereafter shall be held every
two years on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November.  The term of each
person elected under this section at a November election shall begin on January 1 next
following the election.  In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor, or councilmen,
elected by the electors of said town, caused by death, resignation or otherwise, such
vacancy shall be filled by a majority vote of the town council from the electors of the
town for the unexpired term.

The public is invited to attend and make their views known.

Public Comments – None

Vice-Mayor Garrett closed the hearing.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

Discussion Items:

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt A Resolution
Authorizing the Issuance, Sale and Award of an up to $500,000.00 Water System Improvement
General Obligation Bond Series 2021 and Providing for the Form, Details and Payment Thereof.

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE, SALE AND AWARD OF AN UP TO
$500,000.00 WATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND,
SERIES 2021 AND PROVIDING FOR THE FORM, DETAILS AND PAYMENT
THEREOF

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox, Virginia (the “Town”), is a public body politic
and corporate of the Commonwealth of Virginia duly created under charter by  Order of the Circuit
Court of Appomattox County, Virginia, dated June 2, 1925; and

WHEREAS, the Town has determined to replace certain of its water lines on Church
Street in the Town and to finance such in part through the issuance of its general obligation bond (the
“Project”);

WHEREAS, the United States of America acting through the Rural Utilities Service
(the  “Government”),  has  offered  to  purchase  the  Town’s  up  to  $500,000.00  Water  System
Improvement General Obligation Bond, Series 2021, bearing interest at the rate and on the terms
and  conditions  otherwise  described  in  Section  2.2  below  (the  “Bond”)  and  to  further  provide  a
Rural  Development  Grant  not  to  exceed  $1,125,000  (the  “RUS  Grant”),  which  together  with  a
Community Development Block Grant of $650,000 (the “CDBG Grant”) (together the “Grants”)
on the terms described in a Letter of Conditions, dated May 20, 2021, attached hereto as Exhibit
A (the “Letter of Conditions”) will result in a total project cost of $2,275,000; and

WHEREAS, the Town has determined to satisfy the terms of the Letter of Conditions

and award the Bond to the Government, and to accept the Grants;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN

OF APPOMATTOX, VIRGINIA:

ARTICLE 1)
AUTHORIZATION OF PROJECT

Section a)

The Project:  In order to improve the Town’s water lines on Church
Street serving  the  citizens  of  the  Town,  the Project has  been duly  authorized by  Loan Resolution
(RUS Bulletin 1780-27) of the Town Council, dated April 6, 2021, a copy of which is attached hereto
as Exhibit B and which is hereby ratified, confirmed and approved. The Town hereby ratifies confirms

4  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

and approves the RUS Grant Agreement (RUS Bulletin 1780-12), a copies of which are on file with
the Town.

ARTICLE 2)
AUTHORIZATION, FORM, EXECUTION, DELIVERY,
REGISTRATION AND PREPAYMENT OF BOND

Section a)

Authorization  of  Bond;  Acceptance  of  Grants:    There  is  hereby
authorized  to  be issued  the general obligation bond of the  Town in  the  principal  amount  of up to
$500,000.00  to  provide  funds  to  finance  the  Project.    The  Bond  shall  be  designated  “Town  of
Appomattox,  Virginia  $500,000.00  Water  System  Improvement  General  Obligation  Bond,  Series
2021” and shall be sold to the Government upon the terms set forth in the Letter of Conditions. The
acceptance of the Grants is hereby approved. The proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Bond
and the Grants shall be used to pay the costs of the Project.

Section b)

Details of Bond:  The Bond shall be issued as follows:

(a)

A single fully registered bond without coupons in the denomination of
$500,000.00, registered in the name of United States of America, Rural Utilities Service, which shall
be numbered R-1, shall be dated the date upon which the Bond is delivered to the Government upon
payment of the purchase price (the “Closing Date”) and shall bear interest at the rate not to exceed
One  and  Three  Eighths  (1.375%)  Per  Cent  per  year  on  the  unpaid  principal  balance;  provided,
however, that should the Government offer a lower rate of interest on the Bond, such lower rate shall
be conclusively accepted by the Town, including the associated lower installment amount for payment
thereof, it being the intent of the Town to obtain to lowest cost of borrowed funds for the permanent
financing for the Project. The Bond shall be in substantially the form set forth on Exhibit C hereto.

(b)

 The Bond shall provide for monthly payment of combined principal
and interest beginning one month following the Closing Date and continuing each month thereafter
for a period of 479 months until paid.  If not sooner paid, the final installment shall be due and payable
480 months from the Closing Date.  The payment of every installment shall be applied first to interest
accrued to the payment date and then to principal.  In the event the Closing Date occurs on the 29th,
30th or 31st day of a month, the installment payment date shall be the 28th day of the month.

(c)

Installments shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of
America in accordance with the Preauthorized Debit System described in the Letter of Conditions at
such address as shall be provided from time to time by the registered owner, except that the final
installment shall be payable upon presentation and surrender of the Bond at the office of the Registrar.

Section c)

Execution of Bond:  The Bond shall be signed by the Mayor of the
Town and countersigned by its Clerk and its seal shall be affixed thereto. The Mayor is expressly
authorized and directed to finally determine and approve the details of the Bond except that (a) the
maximum principal shall not exceed $500,000 (b) the maximum interest rate shall not exceed 1.375%
per annum and (c) the final maturity date shall be a date no later than forty (40) years from the date
of issuance. Such determination and the execution and delivery of the Bond on the closing date and

5  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

delivery to the Government shall constitute conclusive evidence of approval and no further action by
the Town shall be required.

Section d)

Registration  and  Exchange  of  Bond:  The  Treasurer  of  the Town  is
hereby appointed Registrar.  Transfer of the Bond may be registered upon books maintained for that
purpose at the office of the Registrar. The initial address of the registered owner of the Bond shall be
Finance Office, USDA  Rural Development, 1520 Market Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63103-2696.
Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer the Registrar shall treat the registered owner as
the person exclusively entitled to payment of principal and interest and the exercise of all other rights
and powers of the owner. The Bond shall initially be registered in the name of Rural Utilities Service
with an address of 1520 Market Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63103-2696.

Section e)

Delivery of Bond:  The Mayor and the Clerk are hereby authorized
and directed to take all proper steps to have the Bond prepared and executed in accordance with its
terms and to deliver the Bond to the Government upon payment therefor.  The Mayor and the Clerk
are further authorized and directed to agree to and comply with, on behalf of the Town, any and all
further  conditions  and  requirements  of  the  Government  not  inconsistent  with  this  resolution  in
connection with its purchase of the Bond.

Section f)

Prepayment of Bond:  Installments of principal due on the Bond may
be prepaid at the option of the Town at any time as a whole or in part from time to time (and if in part
in inverse order of their maturities), without premium, from any source.  Prepayments of installments
of principal shall not affect the obligation of the Town to pay the remaining installments payable as
provided in Section 2.2.

ARTICLE 3)
REVENUES AND FUNDS; BOND PROCEEDS; RESERVE

Section 3.1

Revenue  Fund:    All  rates,  fees  and  other  charges  or  other  revenue
derived from the ownership or operation of the Town’s water utility system (the “System”) shall be
collected and, so far as may be practicable, deposited not less frequently than weekly in a special
account designated the Revenue Fund.  Moneys on deposit in the Revenue Fund shall be used only in
the manner and priority set out below.

Section 3.2

Rates and Charges:

The Town covenants that it shall establish and
collect rates and charges with respect to the System sufficient to pay the principal of and interest on
the Bond. Further, as required under the Letter of Conditions, the Town hereby approves and confirms
that a Ten Percent (10%) penalty shall be assessed on all user accounts with respect
to the System that are not paid, in full, within twenty (20) days from the date of billing therefor. To
the fullest extent allowed under Virginia law, the Town shall discontinue service to any user if such
billing invoice is not paid within sixty (60) days after the due date thereof, and further, such service
shall  not  be  restored  until  all  past  charges  have  been  paid  and  all  accrued  penalties,  including  a
reconnection charge, have been paid to the Town, in full.

6  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

Section 3.3  Debt  Service  Fund:    Each  month  the  Town  shall  transfer  from  the
Revenue  Fund  to  a  separate  account  designated  the  Debt  Service  Fund  an  amount  equal  to  the
installments of interest, or principal and interest, as the case may be, coming due on the Bond that
month.  If there should be insufficient moneys in the Revenue Fund for this purpose, the deficit shall
be added to the required payment for the month or months next ensuing until such deficit is eliminated.
When  the balance  in  the Debt Service  Fund  equals  the principal  of  and  interest on the  Bond  then
outstanding to its maturity, no further transfers to the Debt Service Fund shall be required.  The Town
shall pay installments of principal and interest on the Bond as the same become due from the Debt
Service Fund.

Section 3.4

Balance  in Revenue  Fund:   Any balance remaining  in  the Revenue
Fund each month, after making the transfers required by Section 3.3 may be used by the Town for
any lawful purpose.

Section 3.5

Pledge of Revenues:

(a)

All revenues and receipts derived by the Town from the use of and
services furnished by the System (the “Revenues”) and all moneys in the Revenue Fund and the Debt
Service Fund are hereby pledged to the payment and performance of the Town’s obligations on the
Bond,  such  pledge  to  be  on  a  par  with  all  prior  pledges  of  revenue  from  the  System  securing
indebtedness incurred for improvement of the System,  subject to the rights of the Town to use the
Revenues for the operation and maintenance expenses of the System, as provided herein.

(b)

The pledge of Revenues pursuant to this Resolution with respect to the
Bond and shall be valid and binding from and after the Closing Date. The Revenues, as received by
the Town, shall be immediately subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery of
them  or  further  act.  Such  pledge  of  the  Revenues  to  secure  the  payment  and  performance  of  the
Town's obligations under the Bond shall be on a par with all prior pledges of revenue from the System
securing indebtedness incurred for improvement of the System, and have priority over all obligations
and liabilities of the Town. The lien of this pledge of the Revenues with respect to the Bond shall be
valid and binding against all parties having claims against the Town regardless of whether such parties
have notice thereof.

NEITHER THE BOND NOR THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE TOWN UNDER THE
LETTER OF CONDITIONS OR THIS BOND RESOLUTION CONSTITUTE A DEBT OR
A PLEDGE OF THE FAITH AND CREDIT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA
OR  ANY  OTHER  POLITICAL  SUBDIVISION  OF  THE  COMMONWEALTH  OF
VIRIGNIA.

Section 3.7

Construction Fund; Account Pledge:  All amounts from the proceeds
of  the  Bond  shall  be  deposited  in  a  separate  account  with  a  qualifying  depository  designated  the
Construction  Account  and  shall  be  used  solely  for  the  purpose  of  paying  authorized  costs  of  the
Project. All amounts in the Construction Fund are hereby pledged to secure the payment of principal
and interest on the Bond.

7  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

ARTICLE 4)
SECURITY FOR DEPOSITS AND INVESTMENT OF FUNDS

Section a)

Security for Deposits:  All moneys on deposit with any bank or trust
company  shall  be  secured  for  the  benefit  of  the  Town  and  the  holder  of  the  Bond  in  the  manner
required by the Virginia Security for Public Deposits Act (Chapter 44, Title 2.2, Code of Virginia of
1950, as amended) or any successor provision of law.

ARTICLE 5)
MISCELLANEOUS

Section a)

Contract  with  Bondholder:    The  provisions  of  this  resolution  shall
constitute a contract between the Town and the holder of the Bond for so long as the Bond and interest
thereon are outstanding.

Section b)

Town Officers and Agents:  The officers and agents of the Town shall
do all acts and things required of them by this resolution, the Bond and the Virginia Public Finance
Act (Chapter 26, Title 15.2, Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended) for the complete and punctual
performance of all the terms, covenants and agreements contained therein.

Section c)

Limitation  of  Rights:    Nothing  expressed  or  mentioned  in  or  to  be
implied from this resolution or the Bond is intended or shall be construed to give to any person or
company other than the parties hereto and the holder of the Bond any legal or equitable right, remedy
or claim under or in respect to this resolution or any covenants, conditions and agreements herein
contained; this resolution and all of the covenants, conditions and agreements hereof being intended
to be and being for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and the holder of the Bond as
herein provided.

Section d)

Limitation of Liability of Officials of Town:  No covenant, condition
or agreement contained herein shall be deemed to be a covenant, agreement or obligation of a present
or future member, officer, employee or agent of the Town in his individual capacity, and neither the
members of the Town Council nor any officer thereof executing the Bond shall be liable personally
on the Bond or be subject to any personal liability or accountability by reason of the issuance thereof.
No member, officer, employee or agent of the Town shall incur any personal liability with respect to
any other action taken by him pursuant to this resolution or the Virginia Public Finance Act (Chapter
26, Title 15.2, Code of Virginia of 1950, as amended), provided he acts in good faith.

Section e)

Conditions  Precedent:    Upon  the  issuance  of  any  Bond  all  acts,
conditions and things required by the Constitution and statutes of the Commonwealth of Virginia or
this resolution to have happened, exist and to have been performed precedent to or in the issuance of
such Bond shall have happened, exist and have been performed.

8  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

Section 5.6

Series Designation:  In the event the Bond is not issued during calendar
year 2021, the Mayor and Clerk of the Town are hereby authorized and directed to change the series
designation  to such  other  year  as  may  be appropriate at  the  time of their  issuance.   Thereafter  all
references in this resolution to the Bond shall be deemed to refer to the general obligation Bond issued
pursuant to Article 3 under their new series.

Section 5.7

Repeal  of  Resolutions  in  Conflict:    All  other  resolutions,  or  parts
thereof, in conflict with this resolution are hereby repealed except for such resolutions as may have
been adopted by the Town at the specific request of the Government as a condition to its purchase of
the Bond.

Section 5.8.  Reserves;  Audit  Requirements,  Accounts  and  Records.  The
establishment, funding and maintenance of reserves as required by the Government as described in
the  Letter  of  Conditions  are  hereby  authorized  and  approved.  The  Mayor  and  Clerk  are  hereby
authorized and directed to coordinate with the Town's outside auditors in order for the Town to satisfy
(and otherwise comply with) the audit requirements and any other accounting and financial reporting
terms and conditions as set forth in the Letter of Conditions.

Section 5.9

Successors and Assigns:  All the covenants, stipulations, promises and
agreements of the Town contained in this resolution shall bind and inure to the benefit of its successors
and assigns, whether so expressed or not.

Section 5.10  Headings:  Any headings in this resolution are solely for convenience
of  reference  and  shall  not  constitute  a  part  of  the  resolution  nor  shall  they  affect  its  meaning,
construction or effect.

Section 5.11  Severability:    If  any  court  of  competent  jurisdiction  shall  hold  any
provision of  this resolution  to be  invalid  and unenforceable, such  holding shall not  invalidate any
other provision hereof.

Section 5.12  Filing  of  Bond  Resolution.  The  Mayor  or  Clerk  Council,  either  of
whom may act, any other appropriate representative or agent of the Town, is hereby authorized and
directed to see to the filing of a certified copy of this resolution in the Office of the Clerk of the Circuit
Court of the County of Appomattox.

Section 5.13  Effective Date:   This  resolution shall  take effect  immediately.   The
Clerk of the Town is hereby authorized and directed to file a certified copy of this resolution in the
office of the Town.

This Resolution was passed by a vote of the Appomattox Town Council on the [    ] day of

October, 2021.

_________________________________
Mayor, Town of Appomattox

9  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

(SEAL)

ATTEST:

_________________________________
Clerk of Council

Exhibit A: Letter of Conditions
Exhibit B: RUS Bulletin 1780-27, Loan Resolution
Exhibit C: Form of Bond

10  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

CERTIFICATE OF VOTES

The  undersigned  hereby  certifies  that  the  foregoing  constitutes  a  true  and  correct  copy  of  the
foregoing Bond Resolution, duly adopted by the members of the Appomattox Town Council by a
roll call vote at a regular meeting duly held and called on the date hereof, as follows:

Name

Aye

Nay

Abstain

Absent

James J. Boyce, Sr

Timothy W. Garrett

Claudia G. Puckette

Nathan A. Simpson

Mary Lou Spiggle

Aaron M. Tilton

(SEAL)

ATTEST:

______________________________________
Roxanne Casto
Clerk of Council

11  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

EXHIBIT   A
LETTER OF CONDITIONS

12  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

EXHIBIT  B
LOAN RESOLUTION
RUS 1780-27

13  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

EXHIBIT C TO RESOLUTION OF
TOWN OF APPOMATTOX
Dated ___________, 2021

No. R-1

$500,000.00

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA
TOWN OF APPOMATTOX
WATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT GENERAL OBLIGATION BOND,
SERIES 2021

The Town of Appomattox (the “Town”), a public body politic and corporate of the
Commonwealth of Virginia duly created under charter by  Order of the Circuit Court of Appomattox
County, Virginia, dated June 2, 1925, for value received, hereby promises to pay to the United States
of America, Rural Utilities Service, (the “Government”),  or registered assigns, the principal sum of

FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
($500,000.00)

and to pay to the registered owner hereof interest on the unpaid principal from the date hereof until
payment of the entire principal sum at the rate of One and Three Eighths Percent (1.375 %) per year
in monthly payments of combined principal and interest of One Thousand Three Hundred Fifty-five
($1,355.00) Dollars and No Cents beginning on the first (1st) monthly anniversary of the date hereof
and continuing monthly thereafter for Four Hundred Seventy Nine (479) consecutive months until
the principal of this bond is paid in full, each installment to be applied first to interest accrued to such
payment date and then to principal.  The final installment, if not sooner paid, of all amounts owed
hereunder shall be due and payable Four Hundred Eighty (480) months from the date hereof. Such
installments shall  be payable  in  lawful  money  of  the United States of America  by pre-authorized
electronic  debit  for  the  account  of  the  registered  owner  of  the  Bond  at  such  address  as  shall  be
provided from time to time by the registered owner, except that the final installment shall be payable
upon presentation and surrender hereof at the office of the Registrar.

This bond has been authorized by a resolution adopted by the Town Council on [   ],
2021  (the “Bond Resolution”), and is issued pursuant to the Charter and the Virginia Public Finance
Act  (Chapter  26,  Title  15.2,  Code  of  Virginia  of  1950,  as  amended)  to  provide  funds  to  finance
improvements to the Town’s water utility system.  A copy of the Bond Resolution is on file at the
Town  Hall,  Appomattox,  Virginia.    Reference  is  hereby  made  to  the  Bond  Resolution  and  any
amendments thereto for the provisions, among others, describing the pledge and covenants securing
the bond, the nature and extent of the security, the terms and conditions upon which the bond is issued,
the rights and obligations of the Town and the rights of the bondholder.

All revenues derived by the Town from its water utility system are hereby pledged to

the payment of the principal of and interest on the bond.

14  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

Installments of principal due on this bond may be prepaid at the option of the Town
at any time as a whole or in part from time to time (but if in part, in inverse order of their maturities),
without premium.  Prepayments of installments of principal shall not affect the obligation of the Town
to pay the remaining installments payable as provided above.

This bond is fully registered as to both principal and interest.  Transfer of this bond
may be registered upon books maintained for that purpose by the Registrar.  Prior to due presentment
for  registration  of  transfer  the  Registrar  shall  treat  the  registered  owner  as  the  person  exclusively
entitled to payment of principal and interest and the exercise of all other rights and powers of the
owner.

Any amount expended or advanced by the Government for the collection hereof or to
protect any security therefor, at the option of the Government, shall become a part of and bear interest
at  the  same  rate  as  the  principal  hereof  and  be  immediately  due  and  payable  by  the  Town  to  the
Government without demand.

All  acts,  conditions  and  things  required  by  the  Constitution  and  statutes  of  the
Commonwealth of Virginia to happen, exist or be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this
bond have happened, exist and have been performed.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Town has caused this bond to be signed by its Mayor,
to  be  countersigned  by  its  Clerk,  its  seal  to  be  affixed  hereto  and  this  bond  to  be  dated
_______________ 2021.

(CORPORATE SEAL)

ATTEST:

TOWN OF APPOMATTOX,
VIRGINIA

_____________________________
Clerk, Town of Appomattox

______________________________
Mayor, Town of Appomattox

15  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

TRANSFER OF BOND

Transfer of this bond may be registered by the registered owner or his duly authorized
attorney upon presentation hereof to the Registrar who shall make note of such transfer in books kept
by the Registrar for that purpose and in the registration blank below.

Date of
Registration

Name of
Registered Owner

Signature

of Registrar

__________  2021

United States of America
Rural Utilities Service

____________________

Roll Call Vote:  Boyce – aye, Garrett – aye, Puckette – aye, Simpson – aye, Simpson – aye,
Tilton – aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

16  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

At this time Vice-Mayor Garrett turned the meeting over to Mayor Conner.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adopt a Resolution to
the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia to amend the Town’s Charter.

RESOLUTION

Whereas, the Appomattox Town Council met on the _____ day of _______________, 2021 and
hereby requests by resolution of the General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Virginia to
amend the Town’s Charter as follows:

1.  Unless otherwise specifically changed herein, all provisions of the Town

Charter shall remain in force and effect.

2.  Section 1 - Election and appointment of officers, etc. shall be amended to read:

There shall be elected by the qualified voters of said town one elector thereof who
shall be denominated the mayor, and six electors, who shall be denominated the
councilmen of said town.  The mayor and six councilmen shall constitute the
council of said town.  The town council shall have the authority to appoint or
employ a town clerk, a treasurer, a commissioner of revenue, a town manager, a
health or sanitary officer, and such other officers as it may deem appropriate for
the proper conduct of government of the town.  The same person may serve in one
or more of such capacities. The town council shall have the power to fix the
salaries and compensation of said employees and appointees as necessary, but
such compensation shall be fixed by said council before the individual chosen
shall assume the duties of office.   The town council may also appoint committees
and boards and prescribe and fix their duties.

Section 4 – Terms of office; vacancy and how filled is amended to read:

The mayor and members of council in office on July 1, 2021 shall continue in
office until the expiration of the terms for which they were elected or until their
successors are elected and qualified.  At the next election of members to the town
council held on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November 2022, the
three council candidates receiving the greatest number of votes shall be elected
for four year terms, and the three council candidates receiving the next greatest
number of votes and the mayor shall be elected for two year terms.  Thereafter,
the council members shall be elected for terms of four years, and the mayor shall
be elected for a term of two years, or until their successors are elected and
qualified.  An election shall be held on the Tuesday following the first Monday in
November 2024 for the three council seats first expiring and for the mayor, and
on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November 2026 for the three

17  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

council seats next expiring and for the mayor.  Elections thereafter shall be held
every two years on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November.  The
term of each person elected under this section at a November election shall begin
on January 1 next following the election.  In case of a vacancy in the office of
mayor, or councilmen, elected by the electors of said town, caused by death,
resignation or otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled by a majority vote of the
town council from the electors of the town for the unexpired term.

This Resolution was adopted by a majority vote of the Appomattox Town Council at its
______________________, 2021 meeting.

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

Attest:

Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk

Roll Call Vote:  Boyce – aye, Garrett – aye, Puckette – aye, Simpson – aye, Spiggle – aye, Tilton
– no.  Motion carried 5-1.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adopt An Ordinance to
Revise a Portion of the Code of the Town of Appomattox, in Chapter 16 – Elections.

AN ORDINANCE TO REVISE a portion of the Code of the Town of Appomattox, in Chapter
16 – Elections.

Be it ordained by the Council of the Town of Appomattox as follows:

Section 1.  Chapter 16, Section 2 shall be enacted as follows:

§ 16-2 Election of Council Members and the Mayor.

Pursuant to Senate Bill 1157 enacted during the 2021 General Assembly and
notwithstanding any provisions of the Town Charter, the mayor and members of council
in office on July 1, 2021 shall continue in office until the expiration of the terms for
which they were elected or until their successors are elected and qualified.  The next
election for town offices shall occur on the Tuesday following the first Monday in
November 2022.  At such election, the three council candidates receiving the greatest
number of votes shall be elected for four year terms, and the three council candidates
receiving the next greatest number of votes and the mayor shall be elected for two year
terms.  Thereafter, the council members shall be elected for terms of four years, and the
mayor shall be elected for a term of two years, or until their successors are elected and
qualified.  An election shall be held on the Tuesday following the first Monday in
November 2024 for the three council seats first expiring and for the mayor, and on the

18  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

Tuesday following the first Monday in November 2026 for the three council seats next
expiring and for the mayor.  Elections thereafter shall be held every two years on the
Tuesday following the first Monday in November.  The term of each person elected
under this section at a November election shall begin on January 1 next following the
election.  In case of a vacancy in the office of mayor, or councilmen, elected by the
electors of said town, caused by death, resignation or otherwise, such vacancy shall be
filled by a majority vote of the town council from the electors of the town for the
unexpired term.

Section 2.  This section shall become effective upon its passage.

Roll Call Vote:  Boyce – aye, Garrett – aye, Puckette – aye, Simpson – aye, Spiggle – aye, Tilton
– no.  Motion carried 5-1.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Tilton, Council voted to allow on out-of-town
water connection at 236 Somerset Drive, Appomattox.
Vote:   Aye – 5
No – 0
Abstain – 1 (Garrett)

Motion carried 5-0-1.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to amend the Fats, Oil &
Grease Program for the Town of Appomattox.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried
6-0.

Council Comments:
Mr. Simpson – Updated Council for the need to update the pad map at the Visitors Center.  He
will work with the Tourism Committee, Bob Sayre, Anne Dixon and the staff at the Visitors
Center for up-to-date material.  It should be ready going into the next budget cycle FY 2023 or
late 2nd quarter of FY 2022.

Mrs. Puckette – none

Mr. Garrett – none

Mr. Tilton – none

Ms. Spiggle – Wished Mr. Garrett a Happy Birthday

Mr. Boyce - none

Council Standing Committee Reports:
None

19  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 26, 2021

Staff Reports:
Mrs. Kim Ray, Treasurer provided the Treasurer’s Report as of September 30, 2021.

Mr. Elder, Facilities Director provided an update:

➢  On the recent purchase of picnic tables, benches, and trash cans for the parks.
➢  The Inflow and Infiltration (I&I) Force Main will be pressure tested soon.  The project

continues to move along at a great pace.

➢  Robin Snyder, Superintendent of the Appomattox Court House National Park Service

will be attending the November 2021 Council Workshop meeting to provide an update on
sewer repairs at the park.

➢  Work/Plans continue on the Church Street Sidewalk.

Mrs. Casto, Clerk of Council provided an update to Council on the Request for Proposals to be
advertised for codification services of the Town Code of the Town of Appomattox, Virginia.
The RFP’s will be due November 30, 2021.

Mr. Shanaberger provided an update on the following items:

➢  Anticipates having a VDOT Representative attend a future meeting to discuss the

Smartscale project & truck route.

➢  The Church Street water line is moving along.  The USDA representative is impressed

with how quickly this project is moving along.

➢  The Appomattox Downtown Revitalization project is reaching a deadline with the façade
portion of the project.  After November 30th the project will move into the streetscape
portion of the project.

➢  Still looking for Town residents to serve on the Town Planning Commission and Board

of Zoning Appeals.

➢  The Town EDA will be starting its own façade program for the entire town.  The program

may be ready within the next year.

➢  Reminder of Town Council Retreat – Friday, November 5, 2021 at 9:00 a.m.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Simpson, Council voted to adjourn at 7:10 p.m.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

