ref: reel_03_0135
date: 1976-10-11
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on October 11, 1976 at 7:30 P.M. at the Town Hall. The meeting was opened in prayer. Those attending were R. C. Spiggle, R.L Bass, M. J. House, Jr., B. H. Guill, and T. E. Conner. Minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved as read. Minutes of the special meeting of September 27 were read and approved. Claudia Gordon was present to present the Mayor and Council a special invitation to the Historic Appomattox Rail Road Festival. There was lengthy discussion regarding the Downtown Project. Ralph Hines and Bill Berkley of May-Hines and Associates were present to discuss some final details and make recommendations as to final plans and bid advertisement. Ralph Hines recommended that Town follow through on plans as outlined in letter of October 6 to Continental Telephone and agreement with Bank as to completion of the Project: 1. The 20 foot alley remain open as a public alley; 2. That proposed parking lot adjacent to Lee Street be developed fully from intersection of Lee and Harrell Streets, to Main Street; 3. That the right of way for the entire project be obtained in accordance with the plans, and, Continental desires zoning to permit building to the property line. Town Forces can install storm drain in conjunction with Dept. of Highways. Motion by House, Seconded by Spiggle to authorize May-Hines to advertise on behalf of Town for bids on Project according to plans and recommendations by May-Hines and Associates. Motion Carried. Advertising will be in Times Virginian for 4 consecutive weeks with bid opening at 7:00 P.M., Town Hall, Monday November 8, 1976. Motion by Spiggle, seconded by House, that Mayor be authorized to negotiate downward, if possible, from the $12,000 figure the McDearmon Estate has asked for parcel known as "The McDearmon Estate". Motion by Conner, seconded by Guill to appoint Mrs. Mullins as Clerk
chunk_id: 20342
record_id: 1362
page_number: 1

