ref: reel_02_0754
date: 1974-05-20
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, May 20, 1974 at 7:30 P.M. in the Municipal Building with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were: Mr. Burke Guill, Mrs. Robinson, T. E. Conner, Ivey Holland, R. C. Hubbard, and Martin Webb.

Visitors present were: Ronald Spiggle, Mrs. Myrtle Scruggs, Mrs. Margaret O'Brien, Mrs. Mary Bartelt, and Mrs. Elizabeth Reynolds.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

Mrs. Bartelt, as the speaker of the group of ladies, explained the basics of a proposal they had presented to Council for the operation of an Arts and Crafts Coop at the "Depot." Mrs. Bartelt answered the Council's questions. Motion was made by Ivey Holland, seconded by R. C. Hubbard to refer the proposal to the Building and Property Committee and authorize the Committee to negotiate the lease.

Ayes 6 Nays 0

Mr. Guill reported that construction has begun on the intersection of Lee-Grant Avenue and Church Street.

Mr. Slagle asked whether Council would like to have the Division of Motor Vehicles sell the Town tags. The Council did not feel this would be desirable.

Mr. Slagle suggested to Council that because we are now in the process of zoning the annexed area it might be a good time to study the Town Zoning Ordinance and make any needed changes. Mr. Holland made a motion to refer the matter to the Planning Commission, seconded by Mr. Hubbard.

Ayes 6 Nays 0

The Council requested Mr. Slagle to check into the request of Mr. Simpson to install two trailers just outside the corporate limits and talk with property owners on this request.

Council referred the purchase of the Bushhog to the Building & Property Committee and authorized the purchase if deemed necessary on a motion by Conner, seconded by Mrs. Robinson.

Ayes 6 Nays 0

Mr. Conner made a motion to hire the summer help as of June 10, 1974, seconded by Mrs. Robinson.

Ayes 6 Nays 0
chunk_id: 20205
record_id: 1225
page_number: 1

