1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2020

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, November 9, 2020
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Richard Conner, presiding.

Council members present – Aaron Tilton, Nathan A. Simpson, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, and Claudia G. Puckette (via phone).

Staff members present – Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Kim Ray, Treasurer; and Roxanne
W. Casto, Clerk of Council (via phone), Christy Torrence, Office Manager; Jeff Elder, Facilities
Director.

Others present – Carlton Duck and Frank A. Wright, Jr.

Public phone participation through FreeConferenceCall.com was available.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

Rev. Carlton Duck, Pastor of the Gethsemane Baptist Church led the prayer and the Pledge of
Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America.

Mayor’s Comments:
At this time, I want to formally recognize that we have lost a member of our community and
Town Council.  Dr. Paul Harvey served as Mayor of the Town for 12 years and was currently
serving on the Town Council.  This is a gentleman that we will be very hard pressed to fill his
shoes.  I feel as a team we will try to accomplish many of the goals he was trying to accomplish
for the community.  We will surely miss him and am not sure what we can do to honor him and
bring and the community closer together.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to accept the adoption of
the consent agenda for Monday, November 9, 2020 as presented.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
Mr. Shanaberger informed the Town Council that the Town Planning Commission met on
November 4, 2020 and voted to recommend approval of the rezoning request for 929
Confederate Boulevard.  Mr. Shanaberger did bring to the Council’s attention a letter received
today from the Virginia Department of Transportation.  This has to do with the question received
concerning the driveway.  Per the letter, VDOT advised the northern driveway is too small.  It
will need to be upgraded.  The southern driveway is sufficient.  Ms. McMahan with VDOT
requested Brian Goldman provide her sight distance measurements to determine the entrance
which should be in the ingress and egress.  Other than the upgrading of the entrances, she

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2020

(McMahan) does not have any other issues at this time.  Mr. Shanaberger has spoken with Mr.
Wright and this can be built into the motion and these two (2) items need to be addressed before
they get an occupancy permit.  Mr. Shanaberger advised that Council could vote on this tonight
with those conditions.  Mr. Shanaberger said he has spoken with Mr. Boone and he is agreeable
to the conditions.

On a motion by Mr. Tilton, seconded by Mr. Simpson, Council voted to accept the approval
recommendation of the Appomattox Town Planning Commission for the application request to
rezone 929 Confederate Boulevard also identified as Tax Map #’s – 64A6 A B 19A, 64A6 1 A 7,
64A6 1 A 6, 64A6 1 A 5, 64A6 1 A 4, 64A6 1 A 3, 64A6 1 A 2 from R-2 (Limited Residential,
Village Homes) to R-3 (General Residential) with the conditions of the driveway and sight
distance measurements be addressed with the Virginia Department of Transportation before an
occupancy permit is issued.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Mayor Conner transferred presiding privileges to Vice-Mayor Garrett at this time of the meeting.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to accept the
recommendation of the Appomattox Town Planning Commission to approve the zoning request
to install a cellular tower on Armstrong Lane by United States Cellular.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Vice-Mayor Garrett transferred presiding privileges to Mayor Conner at this time of the meeting.

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to declare the following
items from the Public Works Department as surplus and proceed with a seal bid advertisement
for disposal:  6” F-250 Pickup Bed; Acr 175 Air Compressor; Sabre 42” Cut 17.5hp Riding
Mower; 345 John Deere 54” Cut 20.0 Hp Riding Mower; Case International 595 Tractor With
2255 Loader Pin # JJE0029276; Playground Equipment: 1 6x6 Sand Box
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Mr. Shanaberger provided a brief overview of the Hazardous Mitigation Plan.  In late November
this will go the FEMA office for review.  It will come back to the Town around the first of the
year for final approval.

Council Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizens Comment Period:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger provided the following updates:

➢  Matt Perkins with Central Virginia Planning District Commission will be at November
Workshop meeting to provide an update on the closeout of the Meadowlark project.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2020

➢  The closing process continues regarding the Inflow and Infiltration Sewer Project with

Rural Development.

Council Comments:
Mrs. Puckette – none

Mr. Simpson – First, I think it would be good to have either a workshop session or retreat to
learn more about the state of utilities.  I think it could help us all establish a common language as
we move forward.  How are our water and sewer systems doing?  What is our 10-15-20 year
outlook?  What stuff is not on the Capital Improvement Plan at this point that we need to start
looking at for 10 years from now.  Just making sure we have a long-term vision.

Secondly, 2020 has been an insane year and I wanted to see if we could open up a discussion of
how to compensate our Town Staff a cost of living adjustments and a one-time bonus would be
great thankful to our staff but unsure of where the funds would come from.

Ms. Spiggle – Before COVID hit, that was our plan in our FY 21 budget but after COVID and
there was a reduction in revenue then we readjusted the budget to eliminate the cost of living
adjustments.  In years past, we [Town} has given bonuses, cost of living adjustments – but these
are trying times.

Mr. Simpson – I do not think the budget was as doom and gloom as we thought it would be.  We
are in a spot, better than we thought.  We also have good people and want to keep them.

Ms. Spiggle – We do but we also have these projects that we need to complete.  I think that is
fiscally responsible.

Mr. Simpson – I think it is fiscally irresponsible to ask people to work for less than they did last
year.

Mr. T. Garrett – none

Mr. Tilton – none

Ms. Spiggle – none

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 8:00 p.m.  All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

