1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 12, 2019

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, November 12,
2019 at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Town Council members present were James Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Steven T. Conner
and Claudia G. Puckette.  Members absent were Jonathan D. Garrett and Timothy W. Garrett.

Staff present were Town Manager, Gary Shanaberger; Town Treasurer, Kim Ray; and Clerk of
Council, Roxanne Casto.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Rev. Carlton Duck, Pastor of the Gethsemane Baptist church gave the invocation, and led the
Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey extended an invitation to the public for several events scheduled for the Courtland
Festival Park on December 1, 2019 at 5:00 p.m. for a lighting ceremony and then on December
7, 2019 Experience Appomattox will be hosting the Whoville Christmas events in the downtown
area along with a Christmas Parade and Santa Village.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, with all members voting “aye” to adopt
the agenda for November 12, 2019 as presented.  All members present voting aye. Motion
carried 4-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to appoint Chris Simpson
to the Town of Appomattox Economic Development Authority to fill the unexpired term of
Daniel Richardson, ending December 31, 2019.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried 4-0.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to appoint the following
individuals to the Façade Advisory Board for the Appomattox Downtown Revitalization Grant.
Jeff Garrett, Tom Adams, Gary Shanaberger, Lonny Hamlett and Mary Lou Spiggle.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 4-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 12, 2019

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt a Resolution
Approving the Governing Documents and Authorizing the Execution of All Necessary Contract
Documents for the Appomattox Downtown Revitalization Project:

RESOLUTION APPROVING THE GOVERNING
DOCUMENTS AND AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTION OF
ALL NECESSARY CONTRACT DOCUMENTS FOR THE
APPOMATTOX DOWNTOWN REVITALIZATION PROJECT

WHEREAS,  the  Town  applied  for  and  has  been  awarded  a  FY  2019  Community
Development  Block  Grant-funded  Community  Improvement  Grant  in  the  amount  of  $700,000
from the Virginia Department of Housing and Community Development (VDHCD) to undertake
a Downtown Revitalization Project as defined by the grant application; and

WHEREAS,  VDHCD  has  entered  into  negotiations  with  the  Town  of  Appomattox
regarding  a  contract  for  a  Downtown  Revitalization  Project  grant  award  of  $700,000  as  CIG
Project #19-17-28;

NOW,  THEREFORE,  BE  IT  RESOLVED  by  the  Council  of  the  Town  of

Appomattox, Virginia that:

1.  The Town of Appomattox hereby approves the following documents that will govern

the Appomattox Downtown Revitalization Project:

a.  Façade Improvement Program Design, Appomattox Downtown Revitalization

Project.

b.  Program Income Plan, Appomattox Downtown Revitalization Project.

2.  The  Town  hereby  authorizes  the  Town  Manager,  the  Town’s  chief  administrative
the

to  execute  all  contracts  and  other  documents  necessary  for

official,
implementation of the Appomattox Downtown Revitalization Project.

3.  The  Town  hereby  appropriates  $700,000  in  funding  awarded  to  the  Town  of
Appomattox by the VDHCD for the Appomattox Downtown Revitalization Project to
the FY2020 General Fund Budget.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 4-0.

Standing Committee Reports:
The Train Depot renderings will be discussed by the entire Council at the November 26, 2019
Workshop meeting.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 12, 2019

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported he and Mr. Elder met with the Department of Game and Inland
Fisheries to discuss the deer population in Town.

Council Concerns:
Mr. Conner praised the businesses and individuals who gave the community lighting project at
the Courtland Festival Park.  Mrs. Puckette and Ms. Spiggle concurred with Mr. Conner.

Mr. Boyce saluted the Veterans, in light of yesterday being Veterans Day.  Maybe the Town
could offer a proclamation each year for Veterans Day and Memorial Day.  Ms. Spiggle
concurred and stated that the American Legion in Appomattox holds a celebration every year,
which is well attended.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at 7:50 pm. All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 4-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

