1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 26, 2019

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, November 26, 2019 at
6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Town Council members present were Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou
Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Staff members present were Jeff Elder, Facilities Director, Kim Ray, Treasurer; Gary
Shanaberger, Town Manager and Roxanne Casto, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the Workshop meeting to order.

Mayor Harvey reminded those present of the Lighting Ceremony at the Courtland Festival Park
on Sunday, December 1, 2019 at 5:00 p.m.

On a motion by Mr. Timothy Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to add item #2A to
the agenda – Discussion and consideration of adopting a Resolution of Support for the Second
Amendment of the United States of America.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Mr. Garet Rouzer with Dalgleish Gilpin Paxton Architects appeared before Council to discuss
the most recent (11.22.2019) drawings of the Appomattox Depot.  After much discussion, Mr.
Rouzer will work to repair and restore the depot, a phased plan, working on the exterior and then
the interior.

On a motion by Mr. Jonathan Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to table the layout
of the Appomattox Depot until further discussion at the Council Retreat (date to be determined).
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Resolution - Second Amendment Sanctuary

RESOLUTION OF TOWN OF APPOMATTOX TOWN COUNCIL

WHEREAS, the Second Amendment of the United States Constitution reads: "A well-

regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to
keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed," and,

WHEREAS, Article 1, Section 13, of the Constitution of Virginia provides "that a well-
regulated militia, composed of the body of the people, trained to arms, is the proper, natural,
and safe defense of a free state, therefore, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall
not be infringed; that standing armies, in time of peace, should be avoided as dangerous to
liberty; and that in all cases the military should be under strict subordination to, and governed
by, the civil power;" and,

WHEREAS, certain legislation introduced in the 2019 session of the Virginia General

Assembly, and certain legislation introduced in the current session of the United States

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 26, 2019

Congress could have the effect of infringing on the rights of law abiding citizens to keep and
bear arms, as guaranteed by the Second Amendment of the United States Constitution; and,

WHEREAS, the current Governor of Virginia has stated that he intends to endorse and

pass into law legislation that is unconstitutional as it pertains to the rights enumerated in the
US & Virginia Constitution.

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council is concerned about  the  passage of any bill

containing language which could be interpreted as infringing the rights of the citizens of the
Town of Appomattox to keep and bear Arms or could begin a slippery slope of restrictions on
the Second Amendment rights of the citizens of The Town of Appomattox, and,

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council wishes to express its deep commitment to the

rights of all citizens of the Town of Appomattox to keep and bear Arms; and,

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council wishes to express opposition to any law that

would unconstitutionally restrict the rights under the Second Amendment of the citizens of the
Town of Appomattox to bear arms; and,

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council wish to express its intent to stand as a

Sanctuary County for Second Amendment rights and to oppose, within the limits of the
Constitutions of the United States and the Commonwealth of Virginia, any efforts to
unconstitutionally restrict such rights, and to use such legal means at its disposal to protect the
right of the citizens to keep and bear arms, including through legal action, the power of
appropriation of public funds, and the right to petition for redress of grievances, and the
direction to the law enforcement and judiciary of the Town of Appomattox to not enforce any
unconstitutional law.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE APPOMATTOX TOWN

COUNCIL, APPOMATTOX, VIRGINIA:

That the Appomattox Town Council hereby expresses its intent to uphold the Second

Amendment rights of the citizens of the Town of Appomattox, Virginia and its intent that public
funds of the Town not be used to restrict Second Amendment rights or to aid in the unnecessary
and unconstitutional restriction of the rights under the Second Amendment of the citizens of the
Town of Appomattox, Virginia to bear arms; and

That the Town Council hereby declares its intent to oppose unconstitutional restrictions on the
right to keep and bear arms through such legal means as may be expedient, including without
limitation court action; and,

That the Town Council hereby declares the Town of Appomattox, Virginia, as a "Second
Amendment Sanctuary,"

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 26, 2019

CERTIFICATION OF ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION

The undersigned Clerk of Council of the Town of Appomattox, Virginia hereby certifies that the
Resolution set forth above was adopted during an open meeting on November 26, 2019, by the
Town Council with the following votes:
Aye:  J. Garrett, J. Boyce, M. Spiggle, T. Garrett, S. Conner, C. Puckette.
Nay:  None
Abstentions:  None
Absent:  None
Signed this day of November 26, 2019

____________________________
Roxanne Casto, Clerk
Appomattox Town Council

Request for Community Funding Assistance
On a motion by Mr. Jonathan Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the
Request for Community Funding Assistance Policy with a deadline for submission of March 1,
2020.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Resolution – Resettlement of Refugees

RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN OF APPOMATTOX TOWN COUNCIL

WHEREAS, the executive order # 13888 issued by President Donald J. Trump

regarding the resettlement of refugees gives states and localities consideration to be
respectful of those communities that may not be able to accommodate refugee resettlement;
and,

WHEREAS, certain legislation introduced in the 2019 session of the Virginia General
Assembly,  and  certain  legislation  introduced  in  the  current  session  of  the  United  States
Congress  could  have  the  effect  of  financially  straining  local  government,  taxpayers,  law
enforcement, and healthcare facilities; and,

WHEREAS,  the  current  Governor  of  Virginia  has stated  that  he  intends  to  welcome

more Refugees into the Commonwealth of Virginia.

WHEREAS,  the  Appomattox  Town  Council  is  concerned  about  the  resettlement  of
refugees  in  our  municipality  and  any  adverse  effects  that  may  cause  economically  in  our
community; and,

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council wishes to express its deep fiscal commitment

to the Taxpayers of this Town; and,

WHEREAS,  the  Appomattox  Town  Council  wishes  to  express  opposition  to  any

refugee resettlement; and,

4  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 26, 2019

WHEREAS,  the  Appomattox  Town  Council  wishes  to  express  its  refusal  to  become  a

Refugee Sanctuary locality, within the limits of the Constitutions of the United States.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE APPOMATTOX TOWN

COUNCIL, APPOMATTOX, VIRGINIA:

That  the  Appomattox  Town  Council  hereby  expresses  its  intent  to  refuse  becoming  a

Refugee Sanctuary.

CERTIFICATION OF ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION
The undersigned Clerk of Council of  the Town of  Appomattox, Virginia hereby certifies that
the Resolution set forth above was adopted during an open meeting on November 26, 2019, by
the Town Council with the following votes:
Aye:  J. Garrett, J. Boyce, M. Spiggle, T. Garrett, S. Conner, C. Puckette
Nay:
Abstentions:
Absent:
Signed this day of November 26, 2019

Roxanne Casto, Clerk
Appomattox Town Council

On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to return the $72,000
originally appropriated for the Federal Lands Access Program (FLAP) project to the FY 2020
Budget for the Town of Appomattox as unspent as the FLAP project will not be moving
forward.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Staff Reports:
Mrs. Kim Ray, Town Treasurer provided the financial report as of October 2019.

Mr. Jeff Elder, Facilities Director – None

Mrs. Roxanne Casto, Clerk – None

Mr. Gary Shanaberger requested input from Council regarding a Council Retreat possibly in
January or February 2020 and consideration of a Financial Analyst to determine how much debt
the Town can carry.

Mr. Shanaberger updated Council on the following:

➢  Greater Meadowlark CDBG project is nearly complete.
➢  The Trickling Filter Plant/Force Main project is moving along well now.  The project is

expected to be advertised in January 2020.

➢  Design of the Church Street waterline replacement project is nearly complete.
➢  The Department of Housing and Community Development Grant Workshop was held last

week.  Mr. Shanaberger and Roxanne Casto attended.

5  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 26, 2019

➢  The Town Planning Commission will meet on Tuesday, December 3, 2019 at 6:00 p.m.
to begin finalizing the goals and objectives of the Town Comprehensive Plan with more
focus on the infrastructure.

➢  The ROSE Project, Inc. committee will meet on Monday, December 9, 2019 at 6:00 p.m.
➢  Mr. Shanaberger and Mr. Boyce will be attending a meeting with the Virginia

Department of Transportation and Appomattox County Public Schools regarding school
traffic.

➢  The tree lighting ceremony will take place at the Courtland Festival Park on Sunday,

December 1, 2019 at 5:00 p.m.

Committee Reports:
None

Council Concerns:
Mr. Timmy Garrett informed Council of the day of “Community Service” performed by the
students at the Appomattox County High School today, November 26, 2019.  Mr. Jonathan
Garrett further explained the project.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to adjourn at 7:40 p.m.
All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

