1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 12, 2015

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, January 12, 2015
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Johnnie Roark, Daniel Puckette, Stephanie James, Times Virginian; Katrina
Koerting, News and Advance; Daniel Puckette, Carlton Duck and Brian Moore, Alive Media
TV; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; Bill Gillespie, Town
Manager and Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Rev. Brian Moore led the prayer and led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments:
I hope everyone had a great New Year.  We had our joint committee meeting tonight and we
have a lot ahead of us.

Most importantly, we need to recognize Mr. Gillespie.  He came here to do a 60 day job and
stayed for 4 years.  He has managed to change the culture of how we do things.  We have gone
from not having a plan one to having a Master Plan, Comprehensive Plan, EDA, and a Planning
Commission, all of which is beginning to move the Town forward.

From a personal standpoint, “Thank you”.  I have learned something new every time I have
talked to you.  Also, Mayor Harvey thanked him for hanging around for a transitional phase.
From Council, staff and myself – Thank you!

Mr. Gillespie – One thing I have learned over the years and I have learned from myself as well.
You have been a great group to work with.  You have come a long way.  You are right at the
threshold of great things to happen.

Scheduled Public Appearances – none

Adoption of the consent agenda –
On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to adopt the consent agenda of January 12, 2015 as presented.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried.

Unfinished Business – none

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 12, 2015

New Business –

On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted
to approve the 2015 meeting schedule of the Appomattox Town Council.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Spiggle, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted
to reappoint William Coupe to the Board of Zoning Appeals, with a term expiring December 31,
2019.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Spiggle, seconded by Councilmember Puckette, Council voted
to amend the Board of Directors for the ROSE project by replacing C. William Gillespie, Jr. with
Madeline Abbitt.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Puckette, Council
voted to approve QuarterDeck Services as the event planner for the Town of Appomattox
Sesquicentennial events for a total of $35,000.
Roll Call – Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Puckette – aye,
Conner – no.  Motion carried 5 to 1.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Puckette, Council
voted to approve the 2015 Priorities and initiatives.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council
voted to approve an Economic Development Performance Agreement with the addition of a
letter of commitment from COJANA, LLC.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Treasurer’s Report – Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer provided the November 2014 Financial
Report.

Town Manager’s Report – none

Citizen Comment Period – none

Council Concerns – Mrs. Puckette thanked Mr. Gillespie for his service.

Closed Session –
On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council voted
to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of a prospective candidate for
employment and/or appointment of a specific public officer, specifically being Candidate C for
the position of Town Manager, and pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel retained by the Town of
Appomattox regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 12, 2015

counsel, specifically being the interpretation of proposed contract terms for Candidate C for the
position  of Town Manager and Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended, for the purpose of discussion of the performance of a specific public appointee of the
Town, specifically being Appointee A.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

The meeting was reopened to the public.

Closed Session Certification –
Councilmember Mayberry made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Garrett, and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:
Vote: Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council
voted to approve the contract for the Town Manager as written and authorize the Mayor to
execute.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council voted
to adjourn.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

