1  Workshop Meeting
     Tuesday, July 26, 2011

The Appomattox Town Council held a workshop meeting on Tuesday, July 26, 2011 at
7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou
Spiggle, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Joyce B. Bennett.

Others present:  Lucy Harvey, Benny Harvey, Stephanie James, Chad Milner, Carlton
Duck and Alive TV Crew, Jeff Elder, Utility Director; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer;
C. William Gillespie, Interim Town Manager; Rhonda W. Guill, Deputy Clerk and
Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Discussion of the draft Sign Ordinance
Mr. Gillespie explained the Finance and Planning Committee has spent a lot of time on
the new Sign Ordinance.  The Ordinance has been simplified as far as the districts are
concerned.  The B-1 districts have been divided into 2 areas, Richmond Hwy corridor and
all other B-1 areas.  A sign permit will not be required for banners displayed by Civic and
Charitable organizations.  It was the consensus of Council to proceed with a joint Public
Hearing with the Planning Commission in September and possible adoption in October.

Discussion of the Boundary Line Adjusted area Zoning
Mr. Gillespie explained all areas will be zoned B-1 with a conditional us permit required
until the entire Zoning Ordinance is reviewed.  The Boundary Line Adjusted area will be
referred to as the Gateway Area Overlay District.  It was the consensus of Council to
proceed with a joint Public Hearing with the Planning Commission in September and
possible adoption in October.

Discussion of the Waterline Purchase Agreement
Mr. Gillespie explained that we will have plenty of water to supply our customers.  The
Town of Appomattox is the largest user of the CCUSA Waterline.

Discussion of the Waterline Maintenance Agreement
Mr. Gillespie explained the Maintenance Agreement covers the conditions, charges, rates,
etc. the Town of Appomattox will charge the County to maintain the waterline.  The
Department of Health has already reviewed this document.  The attorney and the County
will need to review the document and it will have to be signed by all parties involved
before the water will be turned on.  Mr. Gillespie is hoping to use the Town’s Cross
Connection Program.  The Town will keep its wells as an Emergency Water Source.  It is
the consensus of Council to give the Maintenance Agreement as presented to the
Attorney and Appomattox County to review and be signed.

2  Workshop Meeting
     Tuesday, July 26, 2011

Committee Updates:
Finance and Planning – Mr. McDearmon reported the committee spent the entire time
reviewing the Sign Ordinance draft.  A Public Hearing will be set.

Physical Development – Mr. Mayberry reported the committee discussed the Waterline
Purchase Agreement and the Waterline Maintenance Agreement.  Mr. Gillespie reported
the sidewalks should be finished by the time school starts.

Staff Member Updates:
Town Manager – Nothing to report
Treasurer – Ms. Wilkes reported she and Mr. Gillespie will meet with the auditors this
week to go over the audit report.
Clerk of Council – Nothing to report

Council Concerns:
Ms. Spiggle asked how the Manassas trip went.  Rhonda Guill said it was very nice and
very hot.  She learned the National Park Service handles all aspects of the ceremony, the
Town and County will be responsible for security, traffic control and emergency services.

Mr. Conner asked if the Town was responsible for the lack of Rescue Squad response.
Ms. Paulette said no that is a county issue.

Ms. Spiggle congratulated Mr. Garrett on the birth of his new granddaughter, Callie
Grace.

Mayor Harvey acknowledged a nice letter from the Relay for Life thanking Jeff Elder for
all his help during the event.

Closed Session(s)
On a motion made by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 3 of the Code of
Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the
acquisition of real property for a public purpose, where discussion in an open meeting
would adversely affect the bargaining position or negotiating strategy of the public body,
specifically being for the expansion and/or relocation of the Public Works facilities.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Bennett - aye

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from
open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified
in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed or considered by this
council.

3  Workshop Meeting
     Tuesday, July 26, 2011

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Bennett – aye

On a motion made by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Conner,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 3 of the Code of
Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the acquisition
of real property for a public purpose, where discussion in an open meeting would adversely
affect the bargaining position or negotiating strategy of the public body, specifically being
property owned by Appomattox County for a proposed reuse of public property within the
Town of Appomattox.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Bennett – aye

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from
open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified
in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed or considered by this
council.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Bennett – aye

On a motion made by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Conner,
Council voted to adjourn at 8:30 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

_______________________________
Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC

______________________________
Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

