1  Regular Council Meeting

July 14, 2008

At the Regular Council Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on July 14, 2008 at 7:30
pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council members Bryan J.
Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, John T. “Plicky” Williams, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Karl E.
Carter and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.   Also in attendance were Chad Millner, Earl Dickerson,
Cameron Smith, Benny Harvey, Lucy Harvey, Ben Harvey, Cliff Harvey, Nina Beasley, Maurice
& Marlene Page, Pastor Paul & Jane Raymond, Peter Zdgiebloski, Bob Hopkins, Mary Williams,
Deborah Dupont, Thomas R. Terry, John Wilson, Laura Guthrie, Barbara Shelton, Debbie Baine,
Stephanie James, David A. Hawkins, Town Attorney, David Garrett, Jr., Town Manager and
Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Cameron Smith, Appomattox Court House Presbyterian Church gave the invocation.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. Williams and with all members present
voting “aye”, Council approved the consent agenda dated July 14, 2008 as presented.  Motion
carried.

Public Comments – none

Mayor’s Comments – Mayor Harvey welcomed the citizens present for the first regular council
meeting of the newly elected Town Council body and he welcomed new council members,
returning council members and town staff.  The Mayor expressed hope that with increased
cooperation and communication that we will be able to deal with public business matters during
the regular and workshop meetings and lessen the committee meeting time.  This council has an
opportunity to make historic decisions for decades to come.  The copper limits, SBR remedial
design, supplemental water sources, tourism and economic growth and the Museum of the
Confederacy.  Mayor Harvey is hopeful with all the work before the council that the work can be
done quickly and efficiently.

Appearances - none

Unfinished Business – none

New Business

Councilmember Carter nominated Mr. John Williams as Vice-Mayor and Councilmember
Mayberry nominated Mr. Lewis McDearmon as Vice-Mayor.

On a motion by Mr. Williams, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted for close the
nominations for vice-mayor.  Council members were asked to vote for only one candidate by
voice vote.   VOTE:  Baine – Mr. Williams, Mayberry – Mr. McDearmon, Williams – Mr.
Williams, McDearmon – Mr. McDearmon, Carter – Mr. Williams, Jamerson-Scruggs – Mr.
Williams.  Williams – 4 ayes, McDearmon – 2 ayes.  Motion carried.  Councilmember Williams
is the Vice-Mayor for the term expiring June 30, 2010.

2  Regular Council Meeting

July 14, 2008

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council discussed the following
resolution passed by the Appomattox Town Council in April 2002, with an effective date of July
1, 2002:

a)

b)

c)

Council members shall receive a salary of $50.00 per month to be paid whether
such member is present at the monthly meeting, provided, however, that if a
member is absent for three consecutive meetings, such member shall not be paid
for any subsequent meetings until the member attends a regular meeting.

Council members shall receive $50.00 per meeting for each workshop session,
special council meeting, or committee meetings more than thirty minutes long.

Council members shall receive no compensation for recessed meetings or when
two or more meetings are held at consecutive times on the same date, (that is, one
following the other.)

After some discussion, Mr. Carter withdrew his motion and Mr. Mayberry withdrew his second.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. Carter and with all members of council
voting “aye”, Council approved the following amendments to the above mentioned resolution:

(a)

(c)

Council members shall receive $50.00 per month to be paid when the member is
present at each monthly council meeting.

Council members shall receive no compensation for recessed meetings.  Council
members shall be compensated for a second meeting when meeting fall on the
same date or at a consecutive time, but no more than two meetings.

Vote:  All – aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Williams, seconded by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, Council discussed assigning
Items #3 (Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct) and #4 (Bylaws and Rules of Procedures for
the Appomattox Town Council) to the Personnel Committee for review.  After much discussion,
Mr. Williams withdrew the motion.  Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs withdrew the second.

On a motion by Mr. Baine, seconded by Mr. Williams and all members of council voting “aye”,
Council approved to table Items #3 (Code of Ethics and Standards of Conduct) and #4 (Bylaws
and Rules of Procedures for the Appomattox Town Council) to the Workshop Meeting on July
29, 2008 for discussion.  Motion carried.

3  Regular Council Meeting

July 14, 2008

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. Williams and with all council members
present voting “aye”, Council voted to include under separate cover from the regular council
agenda a separate financial package for each council member to include a copy of:
1.
2.

Edit Voucher which will include the checks written, amount a brief memo description
Copy of itemized statements from the vendors – Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. & Overbey,
Hawkins, Wright
Copy of the monthly credit card statement, for credit card holders (town employees)

3.
Motion carried.

The Appomattox Town Council discussed the Town Welcome Signs layout as presented by the
Town Manager for the four locations as outlined in a diagram provided to the Town Council
members.  Mr. Karl Carter expressed concern with the Town Welcome Sign layout.  Mr. Carter
would like to see the Welcome to Historic Appomattox, Incorporated in 1925, Where our Nation
Reunited.  Mr. Carter expressed his desire for a circular pattern for the sign, reducing the letters,
erecting the signs on Rt. 24, Rt. 26 and the entrances into the town limits on Rt. 460.  David
Garrett included a layout at the Council desk that includes in the dimension of the sign.  Mr.
Garrett will ask the vendor to make edits to the current sign layout.  Once the edits have been
made, a copy will be distributed to the Council Members for consideration.  David Garrett, Town
Manager advised the Town Council that a signed contract has been executed with Bruce Signs,
Inc. to manufacture one sign however; the manufacture has been placed on hold pending
discussion and/or decision by the Town Council.  Mr. Williams asked if the easements have been
secured for the sign locations.  VDOT has given verbal approval on the Rt. 24, Rt. 26, and West
460, however due to other development such as Wal-Mart, the exact sign location has not been
determined.  The 460 East location is across the street from the new fire department was
intended to be the first sign erected.  Mr. Garrett explained that electrical service and/or solar
panels needed for the battery for the illuminating of the sign would need to be considered.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Williams and with all members present voting
“aye”, Council voted to accept the recommendation of the Appomattox County Planning
Commission and approve the rezoning request of Thomas R. Terry on Church Street from R-2 to
B-1, Tax Map #64A5 (A) 177and waive the fees paid to the Town minus the advertisement costs.
Motion carried.

Council gave consensus to table item #10 – Discussion of the proposal concerning the funding of
the waterline from Concord to Appomattox received from the Appomattox County Board of
Supervisors to the workshop meeting on July 29, 2008.

Mr. Baine informed the Town Council that he would rather not serve as the governing body
representative for the Appomattox Town Council on the Appomattox County Planning
Commission for a term expiring June 30, 2010.  No other Council Member expressed an interest
in serving.

4  Regular Council Meeting

July 14, 2008

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Williams and with all members present voting
“aye”, Council voted to advertise the vacancy created by the governing body representative for
the Appomattox County Planning Commission.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Williams and with all members present voting
“aye”, Council voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711(A) 7 of the Code of
Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel employed or
retained by the Appomattox Town Council regarding specific legal matters requiring the
provision of legal advice by such counsel, specifically being a consultation with legal counsel for
the purpose of receiving legal advice pertaining to the requirements for compliance with the
Consent Order under which the Town of Appomattox is operating the Trickling Filter Plant
located within the Town of Appomattox.

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, Williams – aye, McDearmon – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge:  (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from
open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, Williams – aye, McDearmon – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

On a motion by Mr. Williams, seconded by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs and with all members present
voting “aye”, Council voted to ….

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs and with all members
present voting “aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 10:00 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

