1  Regular Council Meeting

Monday, November 10, 2008

At the Regular Council Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on November 10, 2008
at 7:30 pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street,
Appomattox, Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council
members Bryan J. Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky”
Williams, Karl E. Carter and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.   Also in attendance were Barbara
Shelton, Stephanie James, Chad Millner, Cliff Harvey, Ben Harvey, Lucy Harvey, Benny
Harvey, Sarah Watson, Rev. Gene Beverly, Bob Hopkins, Carlton Duck, Derek Norfield, Frank
A. Wright, Jr., Town Attorney, David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette,
Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitor’s.

Rev. Gene Beverly gave the invocation.

On a motion by Councilmember Baine, seconded by Councilmember Carter and with all
members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adopt the consent agenda as presented.  Motion
carried.

Public Comments – none

Mayor’s Comments:

1.   Mayor Harvey provided an update regarding the pipeline explosion in September 2008
and the restoration of full pressure to line A.  The restoration work will continue on line
B and will likely be ready by January 2009.  Line C should be ready by Spring 2009.

Mayor Harvey said he had spoken with Mr. Hutchinson and the Williams Company has
been able to contact everyone who had contacted them regarding damage.

2.  Mayor Harvey reminded council members and citizens of the joint meeting on Monday,
November 17, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. at the County Administrator’s Office Conference Room
regarding the waterline.

3.  Mayor Harvey reminded council members that Tuesday, November 11, 2008 is Veteran’s
Day.  Mayor Harvey thanked those who have served our County and thanked those who
are currently serving.

Appearances – None

Unfinished Business – None

New Business –
On a recommendation by Councilmember McDearmon, Chairman of the Finance Committee,
Council voted to adopt the Town of Appomattox, Purchasing Card Procedure (Credit Card
Policy) effective November 10, 2008.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2  Regular Council Meeting

Monday, November 10, 2008

Item #2 – Consideration to advertise the Request for Proposals for Engineering and Related
Services Basic Ordering Agreement was tabled to the December 8, 2008 Regular Meeting with
discussion of the three questions tabled to the November 25, 2008 Workshop Meeting.

On a motion by Councilmember Baine, seconded by Councilmember Williams and with all
members present voting “aye”, Council voted to meet with the Appomattox County Board of
Supervisors twice a year beginning soon after the first of January 2009.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Williams, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry and with all
members present voting “aye”, Council voted to change the November Workshop Meeting from
Tuesday, November 25, 2008 to Monday, November 24, 2008 and the December Workshop
Meeting from Tuesday, December 23, 2008 to Monday, December 22, 2008.  Motion carried.

David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager gave council an update on the dog complaints received.
Since the town does not have a lease law – a referendum would need to be placed on the ballot
for citizens to vote on before council could enact an ordinance.

Mr. Williams, Chairman of the Personnel Committee requested direction from Council regarding
the position of Town Manager which currently encompasses the responsibilities of Zoning
Administrator and Director of Public Works or splitting the position into two positions, those
being the Town Manager/Zoning Administrator and Director of Public Works.

After much discussion, the council agreed to allow the Personnel and Finance Committee meet
regarding funding for the position or positions.

Council Concerns –
Mr. Mayberry questioned council members on the need for four member committees rather than
the current three member committees.  Mr. Mayberry mentioned he had discussed this matter
with some of the council members who had received information regarding this at their
attendance at the Newly Elected Officials Conference and the Annual Virginia Municipal League
Conference.  Mr. Mayberry suggested the Ordinance Committee look into the matter.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs and
with all members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 8:15 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey,
Mayor

