ee

REGULAR MEETING - JANUARY 11, 1996

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on
Thursday, January 11, 1996, at 7:30 PM with Mayor Spiggie
presiding. Note: The regular meeting date should have been
January 8th but due to weather conditions, it had to he
postponed.

Those members present: S. E. Lawson, Marvin Mitchell, R. L. Bass,
S. E. Carter, and Norman Mayberry, Absent -— R. W. Mitchell.

Others present: Cindy Smith, Times-Virginian, William M. Phillips,
Dennis Gragg, CVPDC, D. T. Garrett, Jr., Kent Hodges, and
Bobbie Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted
to approve the Consent Agenda without the Financial Statement, and
with one correction to the minutes regarding a duplication of the
Ymotion for the Public Hearing on ISTEA" general consensus was to
leave only one motion on the second page, and all those presanht
voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted
to have CVPDC develop a grant proposal for the Community
Development Block Grant Program and provide administration

of said Grant. It is the intent of Council that this grant provide
Sanitary Sewar:to the newly acquired area north and east of Town,
adding new wells, provideing service and stimulus for Economic
Development and enhancing low to moderate income homes in the
Meadowlark Area.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Lawson-aye Mitchell, M - aye Mayberry-aye
Motion carried.

Mr. David T. Garrett, Jr., and Kent Hodges presented a report
to Town Council on the additional capacity at the Sewer Piant
and Lagoon that can be done with a few minor changes. These
changes would have to be approved by the DEQ and the Health
Department. The recommended changes would costs 23,000.00, of
which $4,100.00 is the engineers fee.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council
voted to pursue the possibility that this engineers proposal
presents, provided the changes are approved by the DEQ and
the Health Department and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded. by Mr. Carter, Council voted
to appoint Mr. William M. Phillips, as the Town of Appomattox
legal counsel and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to

283

appoint Doug Gilfillan to the Central Virginia Housing Corsortium with

a recommendation of appointment to its Board of Directors, and
all present voting aye. Motion carried.

