ref: reel_03_0026
date: 1974-10-01
content: Mr. Slagle was requested to check further into the matter of a leaf vacuum system to serve the town.

Mr. Spiggle made a motion to submit a resolution to our Congressmen to request the continuance of revenue sharing program, seconded by Mr. House. Motion carried unanimously. Resolution as follows:

WHEREAS, the Revenue Sharing program has demonstrated confidence in local government to define and solve its own problems; 

AND WHEREAS, these funds have been expended in this community in a most efficient, fair, and equitable manner and for priority items; 

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council urges that this program be continued and strengthened.

Mr. Conner made the motion to approve the "slate of officers" for the Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department, seconded by Burke Guill. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. House the Council went on record in opposition to the nine legislative proposals set forth by the Division of Justice and Crime Prevention.

Mr. Spiggle made the motion to submit letters to our Congressmen opposing the reduction of State Funds for construction of sewerage systems, seconded by Mrs. Robinson. Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Guill reported the Appomattox Garden Club has requested permission to plant a dogwood tree in memory of Mrs. Evelyn Hubbard. Mr. Guill made the motion to grant permission to the Garden Club, seconded by Mr. Conner. Motion carried.

Mr. Slagle requested authorization to begin the process for constructing a new well for the Town of Appomattox. Mrs. Robinson made the motion, seconded by Mr. Guill. Ayes 5 No 0

Mr. Slagle also requested permission to purchase a new garbage body and chassis. Council took no action at this time pending a study by the Council.

Mrs. Robinson made a motion to approve the request by the Appomattox Junior Woman's Club to hold the Railroad Festival the second week of October, seconded by Mr. Guill. Motion carried.

The meeting adjourned.

Signed H. B. Pack Mayor 
Signed B. H. Mullins Clerk 
B. H. Mullins
chunk_id: 20237
record_id: 1257
page_number: 1

