1  Public Hearing

Monday, June 14, 2010

The Appomattox Town Council held a public hearing on Monday, June 14, 2010 at 7:00 p.m. at
the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor
Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Bryan J. Baine, C. Lewis McDearmon, John T. “Plicky” Williams, N. H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry.  Absent:  Karl E. Carter and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.

Others:  Howard and Linda Gregory, Linda Archer, Larry and Barbara Hudson, Dan Cousins,
Charlie Williamson, Donna Nash, Jackie Drinkard, Timothy Garrett, Nina Beasley, Jeff Elder,
Joyce Bennett, Ronnie Lankford, Nolan Connelly, Hazel Thomas, Mary Lou Spiggle, Bill and
June Goodrich, Bill Smith, Chad Millner, Robert Pankey, K. E. Coleman, Benny Harvey, Lucy
Harvey, Stephanie James, Rodney, Longmire, Frank Wright, Town Attorney, Bart S. Van
Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager and Roxanne Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the public hearing to order.

The purpose of the public hearing is to hear citizen comments regarding:

1.

The proposed FY 2011 Budget for the Town of Appomattox – In accordance with §15.2-
2506 Code of Virginia, the following is a brief synopsis of the budget proposed by
the Town of Appomattox for FY 2011:

GENERAL FUND EXPENDITURES
TOURISM FUND EXPENDITURES
WATER FUND EXPENDITURES
SEWER FUND EXPENDITURES
TOTAL EXPENDITURES

GENERAL FUND REVENUE
TOURISM FUND REVENUE
WATER FUND REVENUE
SEWER FUND REVENUE
TOTAL REVENUE

1,625,947.00
231,720.00
1,070,453.00
1,576,049.00
4,504,169.00

1,625,947.00
231,720.00
 1,070,453.00
1,576,049.00
4,504,169.00

Documentation has been available at the Appomattox Town Office, 210 Linden Street,
Appomattox, Virginia from 8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.

2.

Proposed changes to the Water and Sewer Policy User Charges (including Water   and
Sewer Rates), Connection and Availability Fees Administrative Policy

a)  Specifically being to equalize the water and sewer monthly billing rates for

in-town and out-of-town customers.  The water rates will be $5.80 per 1000 gallons
for all consumption and a $4.00 per month per user fee for Capital Replacement
and sewer rates will be $8.25 per 1000 gallons of metered water consumption and
a $9.10 per month Equivalent Residential Connection fee.

2  Public Hearing

Monday, June 14, 2010

b)  Specifically being to equalize the water and sewer availability and connection fees for

out-of-town connections with that of in-town connections.

These rate changes are to be enacted pursuant to Section 15.2-2109 et. seq., with specific
reference being made to Sections 15.2-2119 and 15.2-2122, of the Code of Virginia, 1950 as
amended.  Documentation, including the complete ordinance and other information concerning
the documentation for the proposed fee, were available at the Appomattox Town Office, 210
Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia from 8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday.

Public Comments:

Nina Beasley – 4509 Pumping Station Road, Appomattox, Virginia
Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to speak tonight regarding the proposal to equalize
the water and sewer monthly billing rates for in-town and out-of-town customers.

I am 100 percent in favor of this proposal.  As you may recall, I presented a petition at your April
12th meeting from 85 individuals requesting that the out-of-town water rate be equalized with the
in-town water rate.

When I last spoke and presented the petition, I asked the following three questions:

1.  What is the justification for out-of-town water customers to pay higher water rates,
specifically 50 percent more?

2.  Is there any debt service on the infrastructure serving out-of-town water customers?

3.  Is the Town transferring any tax dollars from the general fund into the water department to
subsidize water rates?

Subsequently, the Town Manager (in the April 21st edition of the Times Virginian) indicated that
there was no debt service on any infrastructure serving out-of-town customers and that no tax
dollars are currently being used to subsidize rates.

This being the case, I hope the Town Council will agree with the proposal to equalize rates.
Thank you.

Mayor Harvey read the following:
Patrick Richardson
June 14, 2010

Re:  Improvements to Abbitt Park

Dear Council Members,

I am the past President of the Appomattox Chamber of Commerce and a current member of the
Appomattox Cheerz committee.  I am writing you in support of the budgeted items for

3  Public Hearing

Monday, June 14, 2010

improvements (pavilion and lights) to Abbitt Park.  The park’s current slate serves great
purposes for the community.  However, I feel that a lot of risk for negligence on behalf of the
town and lessee’s of the park are avoidable with lights in the park.  This will also allow law
enforcement drive by and see what is happening during late hours in the park.

The park was donated for community purposes.  I feel like having a nice pavilion with a rustic
look will enhance the park’s uses.  It will also encourage more people in the community to use
the park.  During Appomattox Cheerz and Railroad Festival the pavilion can be utilized for
cooking, eating, and even relaxing in the shade.

Please note that the Appomattox Cheerz committee and the Appomattox Chamber of Commerce
have donated a lot of funds toward improvements and renovations to the park.  Once the first
phase is complete, I know the Chamber will be working to put a cover on the stage as well.

The aforementioned comments are only from an event perspective.  There are also a lot of
reasons to improve the park based on the needs of our individual community members.  I
encourage each of you to recognize what impact Appomattox Cheerz events have on the town’s
tax base and what the community will be able to enjoy for many festivals and events to come.

Very truly yours,

J. Patrick Richardson

Jackie Drinkard – 201 Point Road, Pamplin, Virginia

Good afternoon Mayor Harvey and Council Members.  I am co-chair of that Cheerz event and
would like to please ask that you keep the money for Abbitt Park in the budget this year.  Our
main objective is to get lights in the park for safety.  When we leave at 10:00 and 11:00 at night
it is very dark.  We actually have to rent lights for the park during these events.  We have
donated to that fund and have asked that lights and pavilion be added.  We donated the stage and
cover at Courtland Field.  The lights are very, very important for safety reasons in the park.  We
will continue to work very hard to help fund some of the needs in the park.  The events bring in a
lot of people from within and outside the community for an afternoon event.

Charlie Williamson – 101 Chestnut Drive, Appomattox, Virginia

I am speaking on behalf of Walton Place.  I offer one thing for consideration.  As we go through
this process, keep in mind I am a CPA and look at things financially when making decisions.
When we had the exchange of the water system is take a quick review and say how much have
the expenditures been since taking in the system versus the revenue we have taken in during that
time.  Basic, very simple.  Thank you.

4  Public Hearing

Monday, June 14, 2010

Howard Gregory – 585 Walton Drive, Appomattox, Virginia

Thank you for having us here tonight.  I would like to ask those who are here and concerned
about this matter, please stand.  Thank you.  Just wanted to bring that to everyone’s attention.
Thank you again for having us here tonight.

Mayor Harvey closed the public hearing.

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

