ref: reel_03_0187
date: 1977-03-01
content: After a long discussion of the Financial Assistance, Mr. Conner made the motion to accept the proposal of Horner, Barksdale & Co. for financial assistant, seconded by Mr. House, with all members voting yes.

Council decided to hold the Chamber of Commerce's request for a donation in abeyance.

Mr. Spiggle reported on a Sewer problem on Cawthorne Street.

On a motion by Mr. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. House, with all members voting yes, Council agreed to accept the recommendation of the Sewer Committee in regard to the Sewer line on Cawthorne Street. (See copy of minutes dated March 3, 1977 for Sewer Committee)

A request from Mr. W. E. Jamerson for permission to connect a laundry mat to the sewer at the Triangle Plaza Shopping Center was denied by Council due to our limited capacity for sewerage at this time.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Spiggle with all members voting yes, council requested Mr. Britton to check on the laundry mat on 460 and develop a solution to the problems there.

Mr. Bass made the motion, seconded by Mr. Conner, with all members voting yes, to accept the recommendation of the Water Committee and install an 8" P.V.C. line on Lee-Grant Avenue.

Mr. Britton was requested to write a letter to the Masonic Lodge and explain Council's decision. (see attached Street Committee minutes dated March 11, 1977)

On a motion by Conner, seconded by Mr. House, with all members voting yes, to renew the lease on the Depot for the Arts & Crafts Center as per the previous agreement. Also Mr. Britton was requested to check into the possibility of installing another meter at the Depot and burning the lights at night.

Mr. Pack reported on his negotiations with Mr. McDearmon and the property for the Downtown Project.

A motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard to purchase the McDearmon property at a price of $12,000.00 and as per his conditions of moving the hedge, an entrance on Church Street of not more than 30 feet, and install a fence and all members voted yes.

On a motion by Spiggle seconded by Mr. Bass with all members voting yes, Council adopted the Cross-Connection and Backflow Prevention Ordinance.

On a motion by Mr. Spiggle, seconded by Hubbard, with all members voting yes, Council granted a conditional use permit to Dr. John Mathews, for an office building addition on Court Street.
chunk_id: 20387
record_id: 1407
page_number: 1

