# WORKSHOP MEETING – February 24, 2004

Page 1 of 2

‘

Workshop Meeting ~ February 24, 2004

A workshop meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Tuesday,
February 24, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present: N. H. Mayberry, C. L. McDearmon, M. H. Mitchell, Joyce
Bennett, S. E. Lawson. Absent: W. H. Carson.

Others present: Bill Gillespie, Region 2000 Regional Commission, Barbara
Bennett, Region 2000 Regional Commission, Charles Garrett, Larry Mobley,
W. M. Phillips, Town Attorney, David Garrett, Town Manager, Chad Denton,
Times Virginian Newspaper and Roxanne Paulette, Clerk. .

The meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m.

Bill Gillespie of the Region 2000 Regional Commission made a presentation to
Council regarding the tax credits for use in developments. (See attachment)

Bill Gillespie also presented the proposed Joint Study Appomattox Town &
County, Department of Housing and Community Development Regional Planning
Grant. (See attachment).

David Garrett made a presentation to Council about the Joint Water Study
project. "

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember .

.McDearmon, Council voted to approve the Secretary Job Description. All
; members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mitchell, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 A.7 of
the Code of Virginia (1950), as amended, for the purpose of consuitation with
legal counsel regarding ‘specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal .
advice by such counsel.

Vote: Bennett — aye, McDearmon - aye, Mayberry — aye, Mitchell — aye, Lawson
— aye. Carson — absent.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby
certifies that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) only public business
matters lawfully exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were
discussed in the closed meetings to which this certificate resolution applies, and
(2) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening
the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

S3\