ref: reel_02_0707
date: 1973-09-17
content: The regular meeting of the Town Council was held on September 17, 1973 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were: T. B. Conner, R. C. Hubbard, Burke Guill, Mrs. Robinson, Martin Webb, and Ivey Holland.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Brent Washburn, President of the F.F.A., met with Council to obtain permission to use a lot as a Children's Park. He explained that the F.F.A. would construct the Park and assume full financial responsibility for the construction and equipment. After the Park is completed, the F.F.A. will turn it over to the Town for maintenance. Mr. Conner made the motion to give permission to the F.F.A. to use well lot 8 and the adjacent lot for a Children's Park and seconded by R. C. Hubbard. Motion carried.

Mr. D. W. (Mac) MacPherson, district extension agent, met with Council to explain the "Project - Downtown Appomattox." He explained the proposals and sketches prepared by students at V.P.I. & S.U. and answered Council's questions. On a motion by Mr. Holland and seconded by Mrs. Robinson, Mr. Slagle was given authorization to establish the necessary committee structure in order to investigate the alternate funding schemes and various construction staging plans. Motion carried.

Mr. MacPherson also explained to Council "Railroad Day." He stated that the date had been set for November 4th and the plan is to make this an annual event if possible. Mr. MacPherson explained that W. A. officials were willing to participate in the dedication ceremony. Mrs. Robinson made the motion to give official approval to "Railroad Day" and elect Mr. MacPherson as the Chairman, seconded by Burke Guill. Motion carried.

Mr. Pack signed a letter requesting the Highway Department to close Main Street to traffic on "Railroad Day."

Slagle reported the Alert Systems for the Firemen had been purchased at a total cost of $3000.00, one-half of which is to be paid by the County.

Conner reported the Police Committee had met and discussed the hiring of a new policeman. Mr. Ray Hudson was selected from the three applications. He will be a full-time officer.

Slagle reported white pines have been planted at the lagoon.

Slagle also reported that under the "Division of Justice and Crime Prevention" grant program (with 95% funding), he had ordered the following:

1. All the necessary radio equipment to completely equip another mobile unit.
chunk_id: 20166
record_id: 1186
page_number: 1

