1  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
July 24, 2018

The Appomattox Town Council held a Council Workshop meeting on Tuesday, July 24, 2018 at
6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Bif Johnson, Dennis Amos, Stacie Castro, Nathan Simpson, Jeff Elder, Kim
Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of
Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Presentation & discussion of the Utility Rate Study –

Mr. Bif Johnson introduced Stacie Castro and Dennis Amos to Council.  Ms. Castro and Mr.
Amos are responsible for compiling the data and creating scenarios for discussion and
consideration.

Mr. Johnson used a Power Point presentation to explain the slides and scenarios of no change,
flat rate and a tiered rate and what impacts these rates would have on monthly bills for the
various types of customers.

Mr. Johnson advised Council that once they have had an opportunity to digest the information he
would be willing to come back with scenarios and recommendations to best facilitate the goals of
Council.

Mr. Johnson recommended deciding when to implement the new rate and working back into the
timeframe.

Council thanked Hurt & Proffitt for all of the information.

Town of Appomattox Sidewalk Improvement Project –

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to award the Town of
Appomattox Sidewalk Improvement Project to Phillip Banton Builders for $41,490.00.  Vote:  J.
Garrett – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.  Motion
carried 6-0.

Appomattox Community Park – Appomattox County

Mr. Shanaberger brought forth a request from Anne Dixon with Appomattox County Parks and
Recreation for consideration to contribute to a fencing project at the Appomattox Community
Park.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
July 24, 2018

Mr. Conner stated he thought we helped when we pay our County taxes.

Mr. Garrett said he has questions about the fencing donated by the school system.

There were no other comments to indicate a desire to move the request forward.

Committee Reports – None

Staff Reports –

Mr. Elder – none

Mrs. Casto – none

Mrs. Ray provided the June 2018 Financial Report to Council.  She also informed Council that
the FY 2017 audit is in the second review.  She is currently preparing for the FY 2018 audit and
the FY 2019 budget is in full swing.

Other items include:

➢  The software update scheduled for July 9, 2018 was performed and staff is speaking with
the software provider about every other day to resolve issues.  Staff was able to print tax
bills today, July 24.

➢  She plans to observe other financial software programs over the fall of 2019.
➢  She joined the Virginia Treasurer’s Association for FY 2019 with the additional benefit
of consultation of legal/financial/collection matter for an additional fee of $50.00.
➢  On August 20, 2018, she and the Office Manager will be meeting with the Town

Attorney to discuss the process for preparing delinquent accounts for court proceedings.

➢  Treasurer’s staff is currently working on DMV stops, debt off set implementation and
obtaining warrants and judgements as possible avenues to collect delinquent accounts.

Council requested an update on the payment arrangements recently approved.  Mrs. Ray advised
that 2 of the 3 customers are doing great and the other one (1) she is working to resolve.

Mayor Harvey inquired about the overages at the end of the year (with regards to the budget).
Where does this money go?

Mrs. Ray responded that cash didn’t get totally expended.  Mr. Shanaberger informed Council
that he has asked Mary Earhart and the Town’s auditors to assist in providing the Town a
number to “earmark” that has been audited.

Mrs. Ray informed Council that the number of cut offs (for non-payment) were exceptionally
low in July.  This was the first month of collecting the full amount due from the prior month.

Mr. Shanaberger briefed Council on the following items:

3  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
July 24, 2018

➢  The Town of Appomattox Economic Development Authority met on Thursday, July 19,
2018 and voted unanimously to recommend that the Downtown Revitalization Project be
approved by the Appomattox Town Council.

To give Council some perspective of the project, last year 15 facades were identified, and
7 property owners signed up to participate.  This year 30 facades have been identified and
20 property owners have signed up to participate.  These property owners have only
signed participation statements not contracts.

Craig Wilson, Summit Design & Engineering said this year’s numbers are looking good.

The timeline for this project will include applying to the Department of Housing and
Community Development in March 2019 and awards will be announced in summer of
2019.  A notice to proceed will likely be given by fall of 2019.

Summit Design and Engineering has submitted a proposal to manage the grant
application.  Mr. Shanaberger will be bringing the proposal to Council at the August 13,
2018 Council meeting for consideration.

➢  The United Way of Lynchburg will be holding a kick off event at the Courtland Festival

Park on September 14, 2018.  The County has provided permission for food truck
vendors to set up in the school board parking lot.

There was a brief discussion of the need for a food truck ordinance.  Council requested
staff bring back something simple by the next meeting.

➢  Continues working diligently on the sign ordinance.
➢  Reminder of the meeting at Liberty Baptist Church on Thursday, July 26, 2018 at 7:30

p.m. to hear their plans to add to the Town Children’s Park.

Council Concerns:
Mayor Harvey informed Council of the packet containing the Performance Evaluation for the
Town Manager.  Please return them by August 13th and a closed session will be held for
discussion.  A closed session will also be held with the Manager at the August 24th meeting.

Mr. Conner thanked Mr. T. Garrett for saving the Town $6,500 for a street light on Court Street.

Mayor Harvey reminded everyone of the free movie at the Courtland Festival Park on Thursday,
July 26, 2018 at 9:00 p.m.  The Appomattox County Library will feature “JAWS”.

Mr. Jonathan Garrett spoke with a representative from Senator Mark Peake’s office and Senator
Peake would be willing to sponsor the Town’s Charter change if Council would like to pursue
changing to a November election with 4-year staggered terms.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
July 24, 2018

Mayor Harvey passed along a concern from Appomattox County regarding the pass-through rate
the County provides to the Town for the cost of water.  The Town then bills the County of
Appomattox the retail rate for water to the County facilities.

Mr. Conner voiced concerns of a tiered water/sewer rate that benefits the National Park Service.
The National Park Service and/or Civil War Preservation Trust is purchasing large acreages in
the County and it is affecting the tax base.

Mr. Timothy Garrett would like for the Town to present a Proclamation to the family/fire
department for Dalton Elder.  Mr. Elder served on the Pamplin Volunteer Fire Department for 50
years, 30 as Chief before his recent death.

Mayor Harvey reminded Council of the Performance Evaluation due by August 13, 2018 for the
Town Manager.

On a motion by Mr. Jonathan Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn at
8:00 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

