1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
July 9, 2018

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, July 9, 2018 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Carlton Duck and Derek Norfield, Alive Media
TV; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto,
Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey presented the Standing Committee Assignments of the Appomattox Town
Council.

Finance & Planning Committee:  Claudia G. Puckette, Chairman, Steven T. Conner and Jonathan
D. Garrett.

Physical Development Committee:  Timothy W. Garrett, Chairman, Mary Lou Spiggle and
James J. Boyce, Sr.

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for July 9, 2018 with the addition of NB – 3a – Consideration to appoint a member of
Council to the Town of Appomattox Planning Commission.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 6-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
Ms. Spiggle nominated Timmy Garrett as Vice Mayor.  Mr. Conner seconded the nomination.
There were no other nominations.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to elect Timothy W.
Garrett as Vice Mayor of the Appomattox Town Council.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 6-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
July 9, 2018

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to appoint C. Lewis
McDearmon, Jr. as a citizen representative to the Town of Appomattox Economic Development
Authority with a term ending December 31, 2021.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. J. Garrett, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to appoint Claudia G.
Puckette as a Town representative to the Town of Appomattox Economic Development
Authority with a term ending June 30, 2020.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried
6-0.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. J. Garrett, Council voted to appoint James J.
Boyce, Sr., as a Town representative on the Town of Appomattox Planning Commission with a
term ending June 30, 2020.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to terminate the contract
with Mitchell Stone dated May 1, 2013 and direct the Town Manager to provide notice of such
termination to Mr. Stone.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to deny a request for a
cellular tower on a Town owned facility located off Ethel Street.  All members voting aye.
Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to approve a street light
request on Court Street between Lee Grant Avenue and Linden Street.  Vote: T. Garrett – yes,
Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – no, Puckette – yes.  Motion carried 5-1.

Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following:

➢  Dalgliesh Gilpin Paxton Architects will begin evaluating the depot tomorrow, July 10,
2018.  DGP recommends a community input session sometime in August.  Mr. Conner
recommended waiting until September.

➢  The Downtown Revitalization Grant efforts continue as he is waiting on 3 more property
owners.  Summit Design and Engineering Services submitted a proposal today however,
Gary needs time to review it and should be able to present it to Council by the Workshop
meeting.

➢  Liberty Baptist Church will be hosting a meeting on Thursday, July 26, 2018 at 7:30 p.m.
at the church to discuss the expansion plans of their park next to the Town’s Kiddie Park.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
July 9, 2018

➢  Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. will be presenting the rate study findings at the Council Workshop

meeting on July 24, 2018.

Council Concerns:
None

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. J. Garrett, Council adjourned at 7:55 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

