# JOINT MEETING – November 15, 2004

Page 1 of 2


The Appomattox Town Council held a Joint Meeting with the Appomattox County
Board of. Supervisors on Monday, November 15, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. at the .
Municipal Building on Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Spiaale,
presiding.

Members present: S. E. Lawson, C, Lewis McDearmon, Jr., N. A. Naybery, M.A.
Mitchell, John L. Wilson. Absent: Joyce B. Bennett.

Others present: Frank Wright, Town Attorney, David T. Garrett, Jr., Town
Manager and Roxanne W. Mundy, Town Clerk.

The Mayor called the meeting of the Appomattox Town Council to order,

The Mayor stated the purpose of the meeting to be an update on the Water
Supply Project by the Region 2000 Regional Commission,

The Mayor suggested that members present their questions to Aileen Ferguson,
County Administrator or David Garrett, Town Manager by mid-December 2004 so
they can be answered by or before February 15, 2005, the next update.

Bill Gillespie, Executive Director of Region 2000 Regional ‘Commission introduced
Jeff Rogers, P. E., CPE for the Commission to give the update of the findings of

~ the Water Study Project thus far. (See Attachment)

Bill Gillespie requested direction from each governing body regarding the forming
of the PSA and funding possibilities and requirements by using the current rate
base. The bodies indicated by consensus that they desire as much information
as possible regarding the forming of a PSA and the funding possibilities and
requirements as the Commission can provide. This information was not originally
in the scope of work, however if each body wants this information, the
Commission will provide it. :

The Mayor invited the Board to view a video of “Smart Planning” by mid-January
2005 and agree to have a community effort to preserve community character.
The board agreed to participate in the viewing at a 6:00 p.m. meeting.

The Council and Board decided to meet-again on the third Tuesday in February
2005 at 7:00 p.m. for the next update by the Region 2000 Regional Commission.

Se