1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
Monday, March 11, 2019

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, March 11, 2019,
2019 at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steve Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Member absent:  Steven T. Conner.

Others present:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Michelle Payne, Times Virginian; Rachel
Mahoney, News & Advance; Sarah Honosky, News & Advance; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Jeff
Elder; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Roxanne Casto.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Mayor Harvey commented on the Downtown Artisan event planned for April 6, 2019 from 9:00-
3:00 at the Courtland Festival Park.

Scheduled Public Appearances-none

Consent Agenda -
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for March 11, 2019 as presented. All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Closed Session -
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the
purpose of consultation with legal counsel retained by the Town regarding specific legal matters
requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel, specifically being the claim arising from
a sewer backup at 182 Virginia Ave and Section 2.2-3711 (A) 8 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel employed or retained by the Town
regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel,
specifically involving the advertisement requirements of Utility rate proposals and Zoning
matters and Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose
of performance of specific public employee, specifically Employee A.

VOTE: J. Garrett-yes, Boyce-yes, Spiggle-yes, T. Garrett-yes, Conner-yes, Puckette-yes.

The meeting was reopened to the public.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
Monday, March 11, 2019

Council Member J. Garrett made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Conner and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

VOTE: J. Garrett-yes, Boyce-yes, Spiggle-yes, T. Garrett-yes, Conner-yes, Puckette-yes
All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Unfinished Business –
None

New Business -

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the Program
Income Plan for the greater Meadowlark Community Development Block Grant Project (MY-2)
All members present voting aye. Motion carried. 6-0

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the Housing
Program Design for the Greater Meadowlark Neighborhood Improvement Project (MY-2). All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. J. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to table the discussion of
the Utility Rate Study performed by Hurt & Proffitt, Inc., including Water & Sewer rates until
the April council Meeting. All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Committee Reports –
None

Citizen Comment Period –
None

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
Monday, March 11, 2019

Town manager’s report-
-The building which has been housing the 1946 Fire truck has been rented & the truck will need
to be moved within the next 3-4 weeks.

-The Downtown revitalization grant is coming to an end with the final project management team
meeting on March 20, and final public hearing on March 26. The application is due on March 29.

-The Planning Commission will be meeting soon to elect officers and begin reviewing the
Town’s Comprehensive Plan.

-On March 26, the Town Council will hear an update from Robin Snyder, NPS regarding the
FLAP grant, the FY2018 Annual Audit report from Brown Edwards & Company & several other
speakers with FY2020 budget requests.

Council Concerns –
None

On a motion by Mr. J. Garrett, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 9:10 pm.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

