1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 24, 2023

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, October 24, 2023, at 6:30
p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Claudia G. Puckette,
and Nathan A. Simpson.

Absent:  Timothy W. Garrett

Others present: Blair Smith, Carlton Duck, Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town
Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

The Appomattox Town Council provided consensus to add the following items to the agenda:

1.  Presentation by Blair Smith, Dominion Seven Architects – Town Office Building

renovations.

2.  Consideration of approving an out-of-town water request for 7854 Stage Road.

DISCUSSION:
On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Boyce, the Council voted to table the discussion
and consideration of appointment individuals to the “Train Depot Advisory Committee” to the
November 13, 2023, Regular Council meeting.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried
5-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Simpson, the Council voted to approve the out-of-
town water request for Eldon Road, a property owned by Clark Campbell.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Boyce, the Council voted to approve the out-of-
town water request for 7854 Stage Road, Concord.  Vote:  4 – ayes, 1 – absent, 1 – abstain.  Mr.
Simpson abstained from voting citing a conflict of interest as the property owner is his client.
Motion carried 4-0-1.

TOWN OFFICE BUILDING RENOVATIONS:
Blair Smith, Dominion Seven Architects presented the Town Office Renovations in a
PowerPoint presentation to the Town Council.  Mr. Smith also presented a timeline of 15-18
months from start to finish with an estimated cost of 2.3 million dollars.

Mr. Simpson asked what major needs should be addressed in the renovation first.  Mr. Smith
explained the heating and cooling system and the electrical system will need to be upgraded.
The heating and cooling system is currently residential and should be changed to commercial.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 24, 2023

Mr. McGhee will be receiving quotes for temporary office space in the next week.

Mr. Boyce stated his desire for a one-level, street-level building without an elevator.

Mrs. Ray reminded the Council of the 1.1 million dollars available in ARPA funding.  Also,
stating with the current revenue trends, in 9-12 months you would never know this happened.

Mr. McGhee stated architecturally this is a major change.  The change is very unassuming, and
the appearance of the building fits the community.

The council suggested staff prepare a Request for Proposal for architectural firms and add it to
the November 13, 2023, Regular meeting agenda for consideration to advertise.

COUNCIL COMMENTS:
Puckette – The depot looks awesome.  It is just beautiful.

Simpson – He had a few residents mention to him that the depot needs an outdoor camera
system, especially since the installation of the copper gutters.

Mr. McGhee asked Mr. Harbin to include a security system in his proposal for the exterior
hardscaping.  The Town is looking into the same type of system as the school system.

Boyce – Looking outside of Appomattox, this world needs prayer.  Prayers for Appomattox,
Richmond, Washington, DC, and Israel.

Allen – none

Spiggle – none

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS:

Finance and Planning/ARPA – None

Physical Development Committee - None

STAFF REPORTS:

Mr. Elder provided updates on the following items:

➢  Downtown Revitalization Project – all items are nearly complete except the brick at the
sign at the corner of Atwood and Church Street.  The handrails on Church Street and the
grading and blacktop of the parking lot on Atwood Street.  The parking lot is expected to
be computed by the end of December 2023.

➢  The Old Courthouse Road waterline repair is complete.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
October 24, 2023

➢  The Church Street waterline replacement project is underway.  The crew began on Morris

Avenue.

➢  The grinder pump went out at the SBR plant, and a new pump has been ordered.  It will

take approximately six to eight weeks to arrive.

Kim Ray, Treasurer provided the September 2023 financial report.  She also stated the FY 2023
audit is ongoing.

Mr. McGhee also reported on the following items:

➢  The first of three videos with Rev. Duck is complete.
➢  Ms. Barbara Perguson has expressed an interest in having “Hometown Hero” banners

hung on the light poles/posts downtown.  The council is supportive of the idea but would
rather see a non-profit and/or civic organization take charge of the banners.  The Town
could hang the banners.

➢  The Appomattox Railroad Festival committee is searching for a long-term area for

equipment storage and meeting space.  Mrs. Allen suggested the J. E. Sears building for a
storage unit that is climate-controlled.  Mr. Simpson requested to know their short- and
long-term goals.  Is the donation given by the Town being used for “storage”?
➢  Mr. McGhee also spoke of broadcasting Council meetings.  A live broadcast is not

recommended by security authorities.  Mr. Simpson maintains he is still a proponent of
live streaming.

➢  The legality of skilled gaming in Virginia after November 15, 2023, has been determined

to be enforceable.

➢  Tomorrow Mr. McGhee and Roxanne Casto will attend a virtual meeting with Kelly

Hitchcock, CVPDC, and the consultants hired to perform the Brownfield Study on the
Courtland Manufacturing Building on Confederate Blvd.

ADJOURNMENT:

On a motion by Mrs. Allen, seconded by Mr. Simpson, the Council voted to adjourn at 8:10 p.m.
All council members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

