ref: reel_03_0176
date: 1977-02-14
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, February 14, 1977 with Vice-Mayor R. C. Spiggle presiding.

Members present were T. E. Conner, Burke Guill, R. L. Bass, M. J. House and R. C. Hubbard.

Those also attending were Dr. Jim May, Mrs. Patty Booker, Miss Patsy Butler, W. R. Britton, Jr., and Mrs. Mullins, Clerk.

The reading of the minutes were dispensed with to allow visitors to come before Council first.

Mrs. Patty Booker requested Council to Co-Sponsor the Fifth Annual Railroad Festival with the Junior Woman's Club.

On a motion by T. E. Conner, seconded by R. C. Hubbard with all members voting aye, Council agreed to Co-Sponsor the Annual Railroad Festival with a donation of $100.00 as a base figure.

Dr. Jim May brought Council up-to-date on the Water Storage Tank and Supply line. He requested permission to advertise for bids for the two divisions of work. Division I being the water tank and Division II, the supply line from the Tank.

On the motion by R. L. Bass, seconded by M. J. House with all members voting aye, Council gave May-Hines & Associates permission to advertise for bids, as he outlined to Council, on March 14, 1977 at 2:00 P.M.

On a motion by R. C. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Bass, with all members voting aye, to expend the $1198.00 for the Ice-Free Electrode Unit and necessary controls for our water storage tank.

Vice-Mayor Spiggle appointed Mr. Bass to serve as the third member of the Property Committee in Mr. Spiggle's place for a Committee meeting.

The Property Committee met and recommended that the bid from Moses Motor Company for a Police car at a bid price of $5195.00 be accepted as the low bid in comparison of a bid price from Lawson Ford, Inc. for a price of $5450.00.

Mr. House made the motion, seconded by Mr. Conner, with all members voting aye, to accept the recommendation of the Property Committee and buy the Police car from Moses Motor Co., Inc. for the amount of $5195.00.

Council approved sending Lynn A. Smith to the Basic Training School at Central Virginia Community College for twelve weeks.
chunk_id: 20376
record_id: 1396
page_number: 1

