# REGULAR MEETING – June 09, 2003

Page 1 of 3


The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, June 9,
2003 at 7:30 PM with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

- Those members present: W.-H, Carson, Norman Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon,

Marvin Mitchell, Joyce Bennett, and Steve Lawson.

Others present were: Steven Andrews, Attorney for JMT, Pat Yeatts, Attorney for Hurt
& Proffitt, Earl Dickerson, Bif Johnson, Hurt & Proffitt, Evans Thomas, Mr. William
Phillips, Town Attorney, Charles Garrett, Chad Denton, Times Virginian, David T.
Garrett, Town Manager, Roxanne Paulette, Deputy Clerk, and Bobbie Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

Ona motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to approve ||
the Consent Agenda as presented. and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Ona motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to remove the
Temporary Sign Ordinance from the Agenda as it is not needed, and all those present
voting aye. Motion carried.

Ona motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mrs. Bennett, Council voted to set the Real |

Estate Rate at 0.15 per $100.00 of assessed value for the 2003 Tax Year.

_ Lawson-aye. Bennett-aye McDearmon-aye Mitchell-aye Mayberry- aye Carson-aye

Motion. carried.

Ona motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to set the
Personal Property tax rate at $0.55 per $100.00 of assessed value for the 2003 Tax Year.

Lawson-aye Bennett-aye McDearmon-aye Mitchell-aye Mayberry-aye Carson-aye
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council voted to set the
Machinery and Tools rate at $0.55 per.$100.00 of assessed value for the 2003 Tax Year.

Lawson-aye Bennett-aye McDearmon-aye Mitchell-aye Mayberry-aye Carson-aye
Motion carried.

On.a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mrs. Bennett, Council voted to set the
Salaries for the Town Employees for the 2003/2004 Year as presented in the Budget.

Motion carried.

Lawson- -ayé Bennett-aye McDearmon-aye Mitchell-aye Mayberry-aye Carson-aye | |