9

i

08

Page 2 of 3

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council adopted
the fallewing resolution on the 460 By-Pass.

WHEREAS, the Town Council of Appomattox in a regular
monthly meeting on May 12, 1986, again considered

the questions and subject of the construction of the
U. S. Route 460 By-Pass of the Town of Appomattox; and

WHEREAS, the Town Council of Appomattox in the said
meeting concluded and agreed that the public interest

and public necessity would be served by the construction,
of the said by-pass; and

WHEREAS, without the said by-pass there now exist several
dangerous, deadly, and intolerable intersections with
U. S. Route 460; and

WHEREAS, both local and through traffic is being unduly
hampered and endangered; and

WHEREAS, these intersections cause undue conjéstion and
create a hazardous situation for members of the public
working or shopping in these areas; and

WHEREAS, there now exists in the Town of Appomattox the
east bottleneck between Richmond and Lynchburg;. and

WHEREAS, access and circulation of-the Lynchburg Urban
area is important to the transportation network of
Central Virginia; and

WHEREAS; construction of the Town of Appomattox By-Pass
would greatly improve the Lynchburg Urban Area
Transportation network; and

WHEREAS, there now exists large truck traffic, approximately
14,000 vehicles daily carried by a two lane road in a
conjested area and crossing mutiple school zones;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town
Council in open session at their regular monthly meeting on
May 12, do strongly urge and recommend that the Governor's
Commission on Transportation in the Twenty-First Century
recommend to Governor Gerald Balilies and the Virginia
Department of Highways to begin the necssary work and

construction as soon as possible on the U..S. Route 460 By-Pass

of the Town of Appomattox.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Conner-aye Webb-aye Noble-aye

Motion carried unanimously.
