ref: reel_03_0296
date: 1978-02-13
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, February 13, 1978, at 7:30 P.M., with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were R. C. Hubbard, M. J. House, Jr., R. C. Spiggle, Burke Guill, and T. E. Conner.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

The Financial Statement for the month of January 1978 was presented for review.

Council discussed the need to up-date the Town Code. Mr. Britton informed Council that Nichie Company would be going out of this business in two years. Mr. Robert H. Guay, Jr., Attorney, has expressed an interest in doing this work. Council requested Mr. Britton to contact the local attornies and see if they would be interested in this job.

It was the consensus of Council that since no bids were presented for the purchase of the 74 Ford Torino, it would be advisable to keep the Torino for use by the Town Manager.

Mr. Britton reported the Fire Department would be purchasing a "brush truck" for their use. This would be at no cost to the Town except for insurance and license.

Mr. House made a motion, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, with all members voting aye, to pay one-half the cost of the insurance and license fees for the Brush truck and let the County pay the other half.

On a motion by Mr. House, seconded by Mr. Spiggle, and all members voting aye, the Appomattox County Jaycees were granted permission to use the warehouse portion of the Depot with bathroom facilities for a "boxing class".

A letter from Tommy Lawson was presented to Council requesting either a zoning ordinance change or an amendment on his property. It was the opinion of Council, that Mr. Lawson should present his request for a zoning change formally to the Council and it would be referred to the Planning Commission for their recommendations.

Mr. Britton informed Council of a possible VEPCO rate hike. Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. Spiggle, to suggest to the Virginia Municipal League that they should not negotiate with VEPCO, but should go straight to the State Corporation Commission. Motion carried with all members voting yes.

Mr. House made the motion, seconded by Mr. Guill, with all members voting aye, to pay only those membership fees pertinent to the positions of the Town Officials.

On a motion by Mr. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, with all members voting yes, the following resolution was adopted unanimously.

[See attached copy]

Mr. House made the motion to request Mr. C. Lewis McDearmon to clean up his fire-destroyed property in accordance with the Town Code, seconded by Mr. Hubbard and all members voting yes.
chunk_id: 20478
record_id: 1498
page_number: 1

