COUNCIL MEETING – September 12, 2005

The Appomattox Town Council met in Regular Session on Monday, September 12, 2005 at 7:30 p.m. at the Municipal Building on Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present:  N. H. Mayberry, Marvin H. Mitchell, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Joyce B. Bennett and John L. Wilson.  Member absent:  Steven E. Lawson.

## Others present:

Mayor Spiggle called the meeting to order and gave an invocation.

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to approve the consent agenda of September 12, 2005 as presented with one change to the “August 23, 2005 Council Workshop Meeting Minutes to reflect that Marvin Mitchell, Councilmember was present.”  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Appearances –

Danny Jobe, Nesbe Cable appeared before Council to advise you that Nesbe Cable has been sold to Jetbroadband Va, LLC.  There are no changes needed to the Franchise Agreement.

Barry Elder, Director of Social Services appeared before Council to advise them of the Social Services office services and appreciates Council continued support.

Laura Guthrie appeared before Council to express her desire to lease the space at the Appomattox Municipal Building to operate the Appomattox DMV License Agency.

Dean Thompson appeared before Council to update and inform them of upcoming events for the 33rd Historic Appomattox Railroad Festival.  A main concern is the labor costs involved with setup and removal of trash, picnic tables, fireworks, etc.  As co-chair, Dean respectfully requested that the Town continue its usual support of the festival.

Standing Committee Reports – none

Unfinished Business – none

New Business –

On a motion by Councilmember Wilson, seconded by Councilmember Mitchell, Council voted to re-appoint Bryan Baine to the Appomattox County Planning Commission as a Town representative, commencing September 12, 2005.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Page 2 of 3

September 12, 2005

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Bennett, Council voted to increase the reimbursement for mileage in the Travel Policy from $0.34 per mile to $.405 per mile, effective until January 1, 2006, Councilmember Mayberry called for the question, meaning to limit debate, all in favor of the limited debate, all voting aye.  Vote: Ayes – 4, No – 1.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Wilson, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to approve the Town Zoning Map as presented at a Joint Public Hearing with the Planning Commission Meeting on Monday, August 15, 2005.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Wilson, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted to elect Marvin H. Mitchell as the alternate voting delegate for the 100th Annual VML Conference in October 2005.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Wilson, seconded by Councilmember Mitchell, Council voted to continue with support as reasonable for the cleanup and associated tasks for the annual Historic Appomattox Railroad Festival in October 2005.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to convene in closed session, pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel employed or retained by the Council regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel, specifically being discussion of the legal significance of the terms of the proposed lease agreement for the Division of Motor Vehicles branches and §2.2-3711 (A) 3 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the disposition of publicly held real property, where discussion in an open meeting would adversely affect the bargaining position or negotiating strategy of the public body, such matters specifically being discussion and consideration of disposition of a portion of the Town Hall by entering into a lease agreement with a private individual for the Division of Motor Vehicles branch office.

Vote:  Bennett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Mayberry – aye, Wilson – aye, Mitchell – aye.

Lawson – absent.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

Vote:  Bennett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Mayberry – aye, Wilson – aye, Mitchell – aye.

Lawson – absent.

Page 3 of 3

September 12, 2005

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Mitchell, Council voted to offer Mrs. Laura Guthrie a lease agreement for the use of office space currently being used by the DMV License Agency with the following amendments: 1) there will be no rent until July 1, 2006 and then council will discuss with Mrs. Guthrie at that time a rate agreeable between both parties, 2) the Security Deposit will be $200.00 due upon execution and 3) $50.00 per month for utilities (amendable at July 1, 2006).

All members voting aye to the amendments of the agreement.  Motion carried.

All members voting aye to the main motion.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted to adjourn at 9:12 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC				Ronald C. Spiggle,

Town Clerk						Mayor
