ref: reel_03_0854
date: 1984-01-09
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, January 9, 1984, at 7:30 P.M. with Vice-Mayor Bass presiding. 
Those members present were: Frances Abbitt, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk. 

The meeting was opened with a prayer. 

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, the Agenda with the following additions to Old Business, 5. Sale of Property - Executive Session; New Business, 3. V.C.C.P., 4. Arts & Crafts Coop, and 5. Moses Motor Company, Inc. sign, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried. 

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council approved the minutes of the December 12, 1983 Council meeting, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously. 

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council tabled Item 1, Financial Statement on the Agenda, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried. 

Mr. Britton reported to Council that we can receive $202,000.00 from the Department of Economic Development in left-over grant funds. Council took no action until official notification of the Grant Award. 

Mr. Carter reported to Council on the Central Virginia Planning District Commission's resolution on the Interstate Corridor Concept. 

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council voted to adopt the following resolution of support on the proposed Interstate: 

(See attached copy in Council file - January 1984) 

Carter-aye Hubbard-aye Webb-aye Noble-aye 
Motion carried unanimously. 

Mr. Britton reported to Council on the UDAG Program which has monies available to businesses within the Town. 

Mayor Spiggle came in at 8:10 P.M. and Vice Mayor Bass stepped down from the Chair. 

On a motion by Mr. Bass seconded by Mr. Carter, Council endorsed the V.C.C.P. Program along with the County of Appomattox and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously. 

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to renew the lease with the Arts & Crafts Coop at the previous terms (see copy of 1976 lease) and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously. )
chunk_id: 20871
record_id: 1891
page_number: 1

