ref: reel_03_0079
date: 1973-01-01
content: Mayor Pack asked for clarification of the following three points: 
1. Can the curb be eliminated in front of parcel 038?
2. Can all permanent structures be shifted from property owned by Jamerson King Realty Company?
3. Can construction be started in advance of delivery of parcel 038?

In answer to question number one, Mr. T. E. Pittman advised that due to the fact that deletion of the curb would allow a safety hazard to continue to exist due to unrestricted ingress and egress and due to the fact that elimination of such hazard was one of the reasons for the project, that he did not think it was possible to get such plan revision.

In answer to question number two, W. S. Slagle advised that certain property lines involving parcel 038 were in error. Mr. Pittman advised that in view of this the property would have to be verified.

In answer to question number 3, Mr. Pittman advised that it would not be possible to begin the project until such time that the right-of-way involving parcel 038 either be acquired or a right-of-way entry be obtained.

The consensus of Council was that the Town could not commit itself to this proposed agreement until the questions involving parcel 038 of this proposed project is resolved.

The V.E.P.CO. representatives presented and explained the basis for their estimate for the adjustment of their facilities along this proposed project and the basis for the Town's cost share. This 1973 estimate requires a Town contribution of $3788.00 which represents 37% of the total costs.

The Telephone Company representative and T. E. Pittman presented their estimate and answered questions regarding it. This current estimate requires a Town contribution of $3268.00 which represents 38% of the Total cost.

It was the consensus of Council to hold the proposed highway agreement in abeyance until parcel 038 is resolved.

Mr. Hugh Mitchell presented a request on behalf of the Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department for 2 air Packs and 3 extra tanks.

After some discussion a motion was made by Spiggle seconded by Conner to buy one air pack and share in one half of the three extra tanks providing that the County provides the other half. Motion carried.

After further discussion Spiggle withdrew his motion
chunk_id: 20290
record_id: 1310
page_number: 1

