1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 13, 2015

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, October 13, 2015
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Steven T.
Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent:  M. Erin Finch

Others present:  Daniel Puckette, Times Virginian; Ashlie Walter, News & Advance; Carlton
Duck and Brian Moore, Alive Media TV; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Stacey Wilkes, Town
Treasurer; and C. William Gillespie, Jr., Town Manager, and Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed all the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck opened the meeting with a prayer and led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments:  Mayor Harvey thanked the Railroad Festival committee for another
successful year.  Mayor Harvey also thanked the Town for their assistance.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Consent Agenda –

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for October 13, 2015 as presented.
Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Absent:  Finch
Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business – none

New Business –

On a motion by Councilmember Spiggle, seconded by Councilmember Puckette, Council voted
to table the consideration to award the bid for the upgrades to the Children’s Park until the
November 9, 2015 Regular Council meeting.
Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Absent:  Finch
Motion carried 5-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 13, 2015

Town Manager’s Report - Mr. Gillespie reported that all of the USDA documents have been
submitted with the exception of the attorney contract, bond counsel and engineering contract.
These should be ready for submission by mid – November.

He also briefed Council on the Urban Development Area designation (HB 2).  There is no match
from the Town and the roundabout at the 460 and 24 intersection is not included.  Approximately
$10 million dollars are available.

Mr. Gillespie also advised Council that Town Staff and Scott Smith with Region 2000 met with
the Department of Housing and Community Development for the first meeting regarding the
Greater Meadowlark project grant.

The Downtown Business District study/survey needs more information.  The goal is to obtain a
$30,000 planning grant for downtown.  There are more than 142 buildings in this study.

Mrs. Puckette thanked Mr. Gillespie for all he is doing.

Citizen Comment Period – none

Council Concerns –
Mr. Garrett provided Council with a handout of a powerpoint presentation regarding a
partnership with the Appomattox County School System for internet hot spots in Town.

Ms. Spiggle also thanked Town staff for their involvement with Railroad Festival activities.

Mrs. Puckette reminded Council that the Town would be providing Hot Dogs, soda and water at
Abbitt Park on Thursday, October 29, 2015 from 5:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. for their annual
Halloween event.

On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council voted to
adjourn at 7:50 p.m.
Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Absent:  Finch
Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

