1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 12, 2022

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, September 12,
2022 at 6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present:  James J. Boyce, Sr., Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette, Mary Lou G.
Spiggle, and Nathan A. Simpson.

Others:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Drew and Tiffany Dearing, Janice Goude, Sharon
Walker, Rob Fowler, Zoning Administrator; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town
Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck stated he is grateful to be standing here with you tonight.  Rev Duck led the
prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Conner remembered those who have fallen because of September 11, 2001.  He
encouraged everyone to remain vigilant.  Especially honoring those who serve in the Armed
Forces and fight terrorism.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Gwen Olivarri, 402 Jones Street appeared before Council to request consideration to rezone her
property from B-2 to R-3.  In 2013 a mobile home on her property burned due to arson.  She
desires to replace the mobile home.  She has been living there for 47 years.  Her parents bought
the property with the intent to live on it.

Mr. Fowler explained to Council the property at 402 Jones Street has been zoned B-2 for quite a
while.  The Town and Ms. Olivarri have previously been to court for replacing the trailer once
before.  In April 2022, another trailer was brought to the property which is a violation of the
zoning ordinance.

Mr. Fowler stated he spoke with the Town Attorney, however more time is requested for
discussion.

Council will review the request with legal counsel and reply to Ms. Olivarri’s request.  She
thanked Council for their time.

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to accept the consent agenda
as presented for September 12, 2022.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 12, 2022

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt Option #4
(attached) as is for the Town of Appomattox logo.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried 5-0.

New Business

Council gave consensus to approve the water connection for Lot #9 at Woodchase Subdivision.

Council Standing Committee Reports:

Finance & Planning – no report.
Physical Development Committee – no report.

Citizen Comment:

None

Town Manager’s Report:

Mr. McGhee reported on the following items:

-  The Council Retreat is scheduled for September 23, 2022 at the Appomattox Inn and

Suites.

-  The overgrown grass along the access road between Walmart and the Shoppes of

Appomattox has been cut.

-  The first phase of the document disposition has been completed.  Nearly 200 boxes were

identified for destruction.

-  The Train Depot renovation project for construction is expected to be advertised next

month.

-  The first set of LED streetlights will be ordered tomorrow.
-  The Chamber of Commerce requested space at the train depot.

On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to deny the request by the
Chamber of Commerce for space at the train depot.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried 5-0.

Council Comment:

Mrs. Puckette – none
Mr. Boyce – Freedom in not free; be vigilant, proud of who we are.
Mr. Simpson asked several questions of Mr. McGhee – 1) Any update on the AV system for
Council Chambers? Mr. McGhee indicated he should have more information in the next two
weeks.
2) Which staff members will be attending the retreat?  Mr. McGhee said Jeff Elder, Kim Ray,
Roxanne Casto and Rob Fowler.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 12, 2022

3) Any update on the R-2 zoning classification for short term rentals and definitions of village
homes and residential primary structures?  According to Mr. McGhee the Town Attorney is
drafting an ordinance for Town Council to consider.
4) Train depot project – Mr. McGhee advised that Dominion Seven Architects will be visiting
the site on Thursday morning and the project is expected to be placed out to bid by the end of
October.
5) Trailer restrictions – replace a non-conforming use as defined in the state code.  Mr. McGhee
indicated that no matter the use – trailers are not allowed in the business district.
Ms. Spiggle – none
Mr. Garrett – none

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn at 7:30 p.m.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

