1

Workshop Meeting
May 27, 2008

At the Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on May 27, 2008 at 7:00 pm in
the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor John L. Wilson, presiding and Council members Joyce B.
Bennett, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, John T. “Plicky” Williams, Steven E. Lawson, Jennifer
Jamerson-Scruggs. Absent was C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.   Also in attendance were Stephanie
James, Charles Garrett, Hill Jones, John Feagans, Earl Dickerson, Chad Millner, Karl Carter,
Bob Hopkins, Paul Harvey, Bryan Baine, Buddy Conner, Carlton Duck, Derek Norfield, Bill
Slagle, Barbara Shelton, David Hawkins, Town Attorney, David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager
and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Wilson called the meeting to order.

Mr. Garrett reported that Beckie Nix was absent from the meeting due to a death in the family
and Leslie Austin was unable to attend.

Committee Reports –
Finance Committee – Chairman Jamerson-Scruggs reported on Virginia Resources Authority
Community Workshop meeting attended by Leslie Austin, Roxanne Paulette and herself on May
6, 2008 in Harrisonburg, Virginia.  The information obtained at the meeting is being used as a
funding option for equipment in the 2008/2009 proposed budget for the Town of Appomattox.

Fire & Safety Committee – none

Ordinance Committee – none

Personnel Committee – none

Street & Property Committee – Chairman Lawson is planning a meeting for next week.

Utility Committee – Chairman McDearmon was absent and David Garrett reported that a
recommendation on the groundwater study should be available at the next Council meeting.

Treasurer’s Report – Leslie Austin provided the April 2008 Treasurer’s Report to each council
member.

Clerk’s Report – none

Town Manager’s Report –

Mr. Garrett along with the consultants from Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. reported on the progress of the
water system by giving an update on Well #15.    The video has been created to give a visual of
the wells.  All of this is being done to document the safe yield of all our wells.  Going back to
look at all the well logs, 48 hour pump tests, the cone of depression to determine the state of the
well at this time.

2

Workshop Meeting
May 27, 2008

A video of Well #15 was shown to the Council Members and public to show where the casing is
leaking.  The engineers were present to explain how to fix the problem and how much it would
cost.  The leak is estimated at one (1) gallon per minute.  It is undetermined whether the water
leaking into the well is surface water.

It has taken two (2) weeks to fill the well to its original state, prior to the 48 hour pump test.  At
the end of the 48 hour pump test the well production rate was 90 gallons per minute.  The sensor
equipment indicates that the wells at 800 feet and 1200 feet from Well #15 are all in the cone of
depression and are interconnected, those being Wells #9, 15, and 53.

Bob Hopkins, Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. explained by demonstration to council how the well could be
repaired.  He has spoken with Bedford Well Drilling and Falwell Well Drilling who gave him
prices of $3850.00 and $3401.00, respectively.   The pump would also need to be replaced in the
well as not to over pump the well.  In total the well could cost between $8000 and $10,000 to fix.
Council was advised that the corrective action would need to be approved by the Virginia
Department of Health.

Mr. Garrett advised the Council that he did contact Mr. Fred Jones of Fred Jones Well Company
and his suggestion was to move over and drill a new hole.

Bob Hopkins, Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. also presented to council treatment options concerning the
Copper.  A report was presented to the council members that explained the types of treatment
options available at this time.  Mr. Hopkins explained that once the State Water Control Board
approves the amended Consent Order for the Trickling Filter Plant, the Town will have 60 days
to develop a Plan of Action.

David Garrett advised council that a developer had been in contact with him regarding a
Conditional Use Permit for a parcel on Lee Grant Avenue for a multi-family dwelling.  The
multi-family dwelling is a permitted use, with a conditional use permit.  Council gave no
direction other than recommended that the developer comply with the zoning ordinance and
council could/would set the conditions after the application was completed.

Councilmember Williams made a motion, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs with
all council members voting “aye” to adjourn at 8:30 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, Town Clerk

John L. Wilson, Mayor

