1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
July 11, 2016

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, July 11, 2016 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin Finch, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette

Members absent:  Timothy W. Garrett and C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.

Others present:  Carlton Duck & Brian Moore, Alive Media TV; Daniel Puckette, Times
Virginian Newspaper; Ashlie Walter, News & Advance; Don & Nancy Wilk, Linda Lipscomb,
Audrey Wright, Robin Snyder, Superintendent of the Appomattox Court House National
Historical Park; Stacey Wilkes, Treasurer, Philipp Gabathuler, Town Manager and Roxanne W.
Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Regular Council meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Brian Moore led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Robin Synder, Superintendent, Appomattox Court House National Historical Park appeared
before Town Council to provide an update on events at the park.  The National Park Service will
begin “No Fee” for access as on September 30, 2016.  She cares deeply about tourism and
community engagement.  She intends to create fun runs and walks in the park along with ready
and crafts at the Library.  She thanked Council for the opportunity to speak.

Audrey Wright – 886 Lee Grant Avenue, Appomattox, Virginia
Ms. Wright spoke to Town Council regarding the tall grass ordinance.  Her adjacent property
will not keep the grass cut below the allowable 12” limit by the ordinance.  She has called the
adjacent property owner many times and the Town has also contacted them. And both are met
with unfilled promises.

Mayor Harvey commented he received a letter form Liberty Baptist Church explaining that the
church was implementing a plan to remedy the problem and apologized for letting it get this
way.

Mr. Gabathuler admitted the Town has been more lacks than it should have been.  He admits that
word of mouth has generally been more effective, except in this case.

Ms. Wright thanked Council for their time and attention to this matter.

Ms. Wilkes presented a water bill extension request for the resident at 449 Sunnydale Avenue.
After a brief discussion, Council took no action on this request.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
July 11, 2016

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey said this was Stacey Wilkes’, Town Treasurer’s next to last day.  She will be
leaving the Town and going to the County of Amherst as their Finance Director.  Town Council
thanked her for her service and wished her well.

Consent Agenda -
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to approve the consent
agenda of July 11, 2016 with the addition of NB #6 – Consideration to allow the request of the
Virginia Department of Transportation to use inmate labor to pick up litter on the 460 Bypass
and clean the bridges within the Town limits by using these individuals to clean/sweep the
bridges and approaches in and around Town and other locations as seen fit by VDOT and Camp
9 officials, NB#7 – Consideration to approve funding of a Public Address (PA) system at the
Appomattox Community Park, not to exceed $5000.00 and NB#8 – Consideration to approve
sponsoring/hosting an event for the First Responders of the Tornado event.
Vote:  Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

Old Business – none

New Business –
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to adopt a Resolution
requesting to add the extension of North Avenue to the secondary system of the state highways.

RESOLUTION – ADDITION OF NEW SUBDIVISION STREETS

WHEREAS, the street described as North Avenue, is shown on the plat entitled “Plat Showing Amended
North Avenue Subdivision and Sight Easement Dedication for property of Yvonne Somerville (Lot 17
North Avenue Subdivision)”, which plat was approved by the Town of Appomattox Subdivision Agent
and recorded in the Clerk’s office of the Circuit Court of Appomattox County, and

WHEREAS, the Area Land Use Engineer of the Virginia Department of Transportation has advised the
Council the streets meet the requirements established by the Subdivision street Requirements of the
Virginia Department of Transportation, and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, this Council requests to add the extension of North Avenue to the
secondary system of the state highways, pursuant to §33.2-705, Code of Virginia, and the Departments’
Subdivision Street Requirements, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, this Council guarantees a clear and unrestricted public right of way, as
described, and any necessary easements for cuts, fills, drainage, and sight distance, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOVLED that a certified copy of this resolution along with the executed form AM4.3 be
forwarded to the Appomattox Resident Administrator for the Virginia Department of Transportation.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
July 11, 2016

Recorded in Plat Cabinet “2”, Slide 109A, Instrument 201600663 on May 9, 2016.

The Vote was:  Aye: Spiggle, Finch, Conner and Puckette.

Nay: none

Motion carried.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted not to provide a
financial donation to the Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce.  Vote:  Spiggle – aye,
Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to fund the 2016
Contribution to the Lynchburg Regional Business Alliance (formerly Virginia’s Region 2000
Business and Economic Development Alliance).  Vote:  Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner –
aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to amend the signature cards
at Farmers Bank of Appomattox and Branch Banking & Trust (BB&T) for all accounts by
adding Philipp Gabathuler, Timothy Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon and Paul Harvey.  Vote:
Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to write off uncollected
debts that have exceeded the status of limitations specifically utility accounts $1,463.19 and tax
write offs of $7,888.50.  Vote:  Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to allow the request of the
Virginia Department of Transportation to use inmate labor to pick up litter on the 460 Bypass
and clean the bridges within the Town Limits by using the individuals to clean/sweep the bridges
and approaches in and around the Town and other locations as seen fit by VDOT and Camp 9
officials.  Vote:  Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Ms. Finch, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to approve funding of a
Public Address (PA) system at the Appomattox County Community Park to exceed $5,000.00.
Vote:  Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to approve
sponsoring/hosting an event for the First Responders of the Tornado event, not to exceed
$3,500.00.  Vote:  Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

Treasurer’s Report – Ms. Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer presented the Town’s financial report
for May 2016.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
July 11, 2016

Town Manager’s Report:
 Mr. Gabathuler informed Council of the Joint Public Hearing scheduled for Tuesday, July 26,
2016 at 6:30 p.m. between the Town Council and Town Planning Commission for a Conditional
Use Permit for the former Thomasville property, specifically Latitude 37 Appomattox, LLC.

The Inflow and Infiltration/Smoke Testing is still in the data collection phase.

The Appomattox Community Park “Kiddie Park” is under a tremendous renovation phase.  The
contractors are moving dirt and staff will begin looking at playground equipment placement.

The Downtown Revitalization Study is going very well.  Business surveys are coming in.  The
visitor survey deadline is July 20, 2016.

The National Park Service is going through the FLAP (Federal Land Access Program) process
now.  Mr. Gabathuler intends to apply on the Town’s behalf along with VDOT, Appomattox
County, and Region 2000.  Ideally this plan is for a multiuse path such as the High Bridge Trail.

Mr. Gabathuler advised that his family has moved into the Town of Appomattox.

Mr. Gabathuler also thanked Ms. Wilkes for her time with the Town and wished her well.

Citizen Comment Period – None

Council Concerns:
Mrs. Puckette expressed her desire to hold another community picnic.  It is an excellent
opportunity for the Council members to meet with the public.  She also wished Stacey Wilkes
the best and thanked her for everything.

Mr. Conner – We have an opportunity for the Town, County and National Park Service to work
together.  Since revenues are up, maybe we can cut some taxes.

Mayor Harvey asked Mr. Gabathuler if Mrs. Adams, County Administrator had mentioned
having a joint meeting between the Town and County any time soon.  He replied that she had
mentioned in the fall of 2016.

Mrs. Spiggle thanked Stacey Wilkes for her service and this move was an excellent job
opportunity for her.  She also thanked Ms. Snyder.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 8:45 p.m.
Vote:  Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

