1  Appomattox Town Council

Joint Public Hearing
July 26, 2016

The Appomattox Town Council and Appomattox Town Planning Commission held a joint public
hearing on Tuesday, July 26, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210
Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Town Council Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou
Spiggle, and M. Erin Finch.
Abstaining:  Steven T. Conner

Planning Commission members present:  Marvin Mitchell, S. L. Ferguson, Claudia Puckette.
Absent:  Roger Carson.

Others present:  Ashlie Walter, News & Advance; Daniel Puckette, Times Virginian; Noah
Harris, George Aznavorian, Steven Conner (Agent), Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Don and
Nancy Wilk, Philipp Gabathuler, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Town Council meeting to order.

Marvin Mitchell, Chairman, called the Planning Commission to order.

Mayor Harvey stated the purpose of the public hearing:
Latitude 37 Appomattox, LLC does hereby request a Conditional Use Permit in order to add
storage units as shown on the Conditional Use Permit Plan  submitted for Tax Map Identification
Number 64A1 (A) 3.  This parcel is approximately 85.5 acres in size and is located at 310
Furniture Lane, Appomattox, Virginia.  The property is zoned M-1, Industrial.  Any structure to
be erected or land to be used in such zone shall be for one or more of the uses enumerated in
Town Code Section 195-66, all of which shall require a conditional use permit.  However, Town
Code Section 195-14 allows for any use not specifically enumerated as a permitted use in any
zone to be approved by special exception of the Town Council in its discretion, upon request by
the owner of the property.

No comments were made from the public during the hearing.

Mayor Harvey and Chairman Mitchell closed the public hearing.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

