WORKSHOP MEETING – January 25, 2005

A workshop meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Tuesday, January 25, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the Municipal Building on Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present:  Joyce Bennett, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Marvin H. Mitchell, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John L. Wilson, Steven E. Lawson.

Others present:  David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager, Frank A. Wright, Jr., Town Attorney, Larry Mobley, Frank Brina, Chad Denton and Roxanne Mundy, Town Clerk.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to approve the workshop agenda as presented with the addition of Consideration of Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. to continue with the next phase of the Inflow and Infiltration Study.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to set up the Property/Maintenance Inspection Board as prescribed in 18-64 of the Town Code.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Council gave a consensus for John L. Wilson, Robert A. Sears and Barry Morris to serve a one-year term on the Property/Maintenance Inspection Board if they were willing.

On a motion by Councilmember Wilson, seconded by Councilmember Bennett, Council voted to send the revised zoning maps to the Appomattox County Planning Commission for review.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Wilson, Council voted to proceed with the last phase of the I&I Study as previously presented by Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. for $15,121.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel employed or retained by the council regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel, specifically being legal issues relating to negotiations of easements for the South Church Street sewer line replacement project.

VOTE:  Bennett – aye, Mayberry – aye, Mitchell – aye, McDearmon – aye, Wilson – aye, Lawson – aye.

Page 2 of 2

January 25, 2005

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted under the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion by which the closed meeting was convened, were heard, discussed or considered in the meeting by this council.

VOTE:  Bennett – aye, Mayberry – aye, Mitchell – aye, McDearmon – aye, Wilson – aye, Lawson – aye.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Lawson, Council voted to adjourn at 8:20 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Ronald C. Spiggle, Mayor

Roxanne W. Mundy, CMC
