ref: reel_03_0041
date: 1950-01-01
content: Mr. Slagle reported the Chamber of Commerce would like to rent the old Town Office either individually or in conjunction with the Information and Referral Center, should they desire to continue their service. Mr. Spiggle made the motion to rent the old Town Office to the Chamber of Commerce seconded by Mr. Guill. Motion carried. Mr. Spiggle brought up the question of whether we should pay the utilities. An amendment to the motion was proposed by Mr. House to have the Chamber of Commerce pay their own utilities, seconded by Mr. Conner. Ayes 5 Nays 0 Motion and amendment carried.

Mr. House made a motion to have Mr. Slagle as Town Manager, become a member of the Appomattox County Development Corporation and also pay his dues of $5.00, seconded by Mr. Spiggle. Motion carried.

Mr. Slagle reported that we have received a "quitclaim" deed from Thomasville for 500 feet of new street to the Thomasville Plant, which parcel is referred to as tract 3. Mr. Guill made the motion to accept this "quitclaim" agreement subject to the Town attorney's approval and to authorize Mr. Slagle to execute the agreement on behalf of the Town, seconded by Mrs. Robinson. Ayes 5 Nays 0 Motion carried.

Mr. Slagle reported that Mr. Bill Jamerson is proposing to construct an Auto Parts Store in the Shopping Center. This store will require two restrooms. Motion made by Mr. Conner seconded by Mr. House to authorized the connection of this new store to the Town water and sewer systems. Ayes 5 Nays 0

Mr. Slagle reported that he had prepared an Erosion and Sediment Control Ordinance for Council's review but he has since learned that we may be granted additional time in which we have to adopt such an ordinance.

Mr. Slagle requested the Council to either accept or reject the proposed VEPCO Contract. Mr. Pack felt that the section in regard to street lights needed some clarification. Council discussed the contract. Mr. Spiggle made the motion to accept the proposed VEPCO contract subject to the above points clarification to the satisfaction of the Mayor, seconded by Mr. House. Ayes 4 Nays 0 Abstaining 1. Motion carried.

Mr. Slagle requested a decision on the purchase of a new garbage truck. Mr. House asked has it been established that we need a new truck. Mr. Slagle explained he had several prices from different companies but a definite "bid quotation" is required before an exact price can be quoted. Different type garbage trucks and chassis were discussed. Mr. Pack felt we should table the matter until a definite need is established. Council indicated their concurrence with this decision by their silence.

Mr. Conner reported that Mr. Patteson had to put the Hotel on the market at a price of $24,000.00. Mr. Conner requested that Mr. Slagle report on the appraisals from the banks. Council discussed the matter but took no action.
chunk_id: 20252
record_id: 1272
page_number: 1

