ref: reel_03_0040
date: 1975-05-12
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, May 12, 1975 at 8:00 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Those present were R. C. Spiggle, Burke Guill, Mrs. Robinson, T. E. Conner, and Marvin J. House, Jr.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved with the following amendment: "Mr. Conner made an amendment to the motion to set the Town Office hours from 8:30 to 5:30, but the amendment died from lack of a second."

Mrs. Robinson asked what needs to be done on the water rate structure. Council was of the opinion that more study was needed and that the Water Committee should make some recommendations on this matter.

Mr. Spiggle asked Mr. Slagle to explain the implications of Step I of the Appomattox regional sewage treatment plant project. Mr. Slagle explained that he will meet with a representative of the State Water Control Board on the following day to discuss the project. Mr. Spiggle expressed his opinion that we should have a specific understanding with the State Water Control Board before entering into Step I.

Mr. Guill reported that the businessmen in the downtown area are complaining that their customers have no parking facilities. They feel the parking in the "Depot" parking lot should be limited. The matter was turned over to the Street Committee for their recommendation.

Mr. Guill asked Mr. Slagle to explain the Downtown Drainage project. Mr. Slagle explained that he had met with Mr. Pittman and Mr. Chryssostos of the Highway Department and discussed the drainage problem on Main Street. The Highway Department has agreed to participate in this project if the Town Manager will complete a drainage study which would identify the problem and recommend corrective procedures.

Mr. Slagle reported that he has received a Revenue Sharing Planned Use Report and would like Council to decide in which category they want the Revenue Sharing money spent. Council decided to categorize the Revenue Sharing money received for multi-purpose general government use.

Mr. Slagle asked Council to set an upper limit for the contributions toward the Third Annual Historic Railroad Day. Mr. Spiggle made the motion to establish a limit of $150.00 in contributions seconded by Mr. House. Ayes 5 Nays 0 Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20251
record_id: 1271
page_number: 1

