286 |

Regular Meeting - January 12, 1998 |

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, January
12, 1998 at 7:30 PM with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

_ Those members present: 8. E. Lawson, Joyce Bennett, Rick Pack, Norman Mayberry,

and M. H. Mitchell. Absent - R. L. Bass.

Others present: Dale Campbell, Harry O. Guill, Cariton W. Guill, Lester Wingfield,
June Chenault, James C. Moore, Mildred Hubbard, Ardell Lawson, S. L. Ferguson, [II
Tommy Lawson, Robert Scherle, Merle Scherle, Margaret Banko, Frank J. Banko,
Bryan Selz, Samuel Carter, Allen Farley, Nancy Conner, Steven T. Conner, Stan
Goldsmith, Mr. & Mrs. Terkelson, Audrey Wright, Marvin Hamlett, Times-Virginian
David T. Garrett, Jr., William Phillips, Town Attorney, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

Mayor Spiggle took this time to welcome Mrs. Joyce Bennett, as the new member of the
Appomattox Town Council.

On a motion by Mr. S. E. Carter, seconded by Norman H. Mayberry, Council voted to approve

the Consent Agenda with the following Additions: Unfinished Business: 3. Appointment
to Local Planning Commission, and New Business; 7. Appomattox Youth Sports, and
8. Re-enactment - Allen Farley, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried, !

Mayor Spiggle opened the floor to comments from those present on the request from
Nancy Conner/Steven Conner, for rezoning.

Bryan Selz, Attorney for the Conners, spoke to Council on the restrictions and limitations
you can apply to our request.

Date Campbell and Bruce Drinkard, spoke to Council regarding the Appomattox Youth
Sports Program. They would like to request a monetary donation to their program from
Town Council.

Mr, Allen Farley, Local Commander of the SCV, appeared before Council to request some
financial assistance to stage a re-enactment in 1998 and 1999. This would earn funds to
have the big “presentation” or surrender in 2000.

Qn a motion by Mr. S. E. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to deny the
request from Mrs. Coflin for parking spots on the corner of Church Street and Oakleigh
Avenue and those present voting aye. Motion cartied.

Mayor Spiggle read into the record the letter regarding the recommendations of the
Planning Commission on Nancy Conntr/Steve Conner zoning tequest.see attached copy. hes

pe te

