1  Regular Council Meeting

April 14, 2008

At the Regular Council Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on April 14, 2008 at
7:30 pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street,
Appomattox, Virginia, there present were Mayor John L. Wilson, presiding and Council
members Joyce B. Bennett, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T.
“Plicky” Williams, Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs, Steven E. Lawson.  Also in attendance were Paul
Harvey, Chad Millner, Mary Lou Spiggle, Barbara Shelton, Beckie Nix, Stephanie James, Earl
Dickerson, Bif Johnson, Hill Jones, Charles Garrett, Bryan Baine, Darrel Puckett, Bill Burke,
Carlton Duck, Frank A. Wright, Jr., Town Attorney, David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager and
Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Wilson called the meeting to order.

Darrel W. Puckett, Town Resident and Appomattox County Commonwealth Attorney gave the
invocation.

On a motion by Mr. Williams, seconded by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs and with all members present
voting “aye”, Council approved the consent agenda dated April 14, 2008 as presented.  Motion
carried.

Public Comments – none

Mayor’s Comments – none

Appearances
Earl Dickerson, President, Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. gave an update regarding the status of the SBR
Remediation Design.  The design phase is approximately 21% complete with $16,370.31 billed
to date.

David Garrett, Town Manager reported that he also received a facsimile from Ned Cleland with
Blue Ridge Design today (4/14/08) regarding the current progress on the Wastewater Treatment
Plant Tank Repairs at the SBR facility along with the amount accrued of $3,040.00 on the project
to date.  There have been twenty three (23) hours of firm principal time and four (4) hours of
staff engineering time spent to date.  Mr. Cleland also provided in the facsimile an agreement
between the Town of Appomattox and Blue Ridge Design, Inc.  The originals would need to be
returned with signatures.  Mr. Cleland also included the base sheet drawings prepared to contain
the remedial design layout and instructions.

Unfinished Business – none

David Garrett, Town Manager reported that he had spoken with Kelly Hobbs; Public Affairs
representative with Wal-Mart who assured him that Wal-Mart was still coming to Appomattox
and are excited about the project.

David Garrett, Town Manager also reported that the 48 hour pump test on Well #15 was
scheduled to begin on Tuesday, April 15, 2008 at 8:00 a.m.

2  Regular Council Meeting

April 14, 2008

New Business
On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs and all council members
present voting “aye”, the Appomattox Town Council voted to enter into Closed Session,
pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of
consultation with legal counsel retained by the Town regarding specific legal advice by such
counsel, the subject matter of such meeting being the legal requirements of compliance with the
Public Procurement Act, and the purpose of such meeting being provision of advice concerning
such requirements in the context of the Groundwater Study procurement and pursuant to §2.2-
3711 (A) 6 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for discussion and consideration of the
investment of public funds where competition or bargaining is involved, where, if made public
initially, the financial interest of the Town of Appomattox would be adversely affected, with the
specific purpose of such closed session being to discuss and consider the investment of public
funds for the waterline from Concord to Appomattox as they relate to bargaining with
Appomattox County regarding the proposal submitted by the County for cost sharing, and the
subject matter of such closed session being discussion and consideration of the investment of
public funds for the waterline from Concord to Appomattox.

VOTE:  Bennett – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Jamerson-Scruggs –
aye, Lawson – aye.  Motion carried.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

VOTE:  Bennett – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Jamerson-Scruggs –
aye, Lawson – aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. McDearmon and with all members present voting
“aye”, Council voted to send the counter-offer letter as drafted to the Appomattox County Board
of Supervisors regarding the county’s proposal on the waterline from Concord to Appomattox.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Williams and with all members present
voting “aye”, Council voted to send the task of obtaining an hourly rate fee schedule and
examination of the Request for Proposals (RFP’s) on the Groundwater Study project to the
Utility Committee for a recommendation.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Ms. Bennett and with all members present voting
“aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 8:35 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk

John L. Wilson, Mayor

