1  Joint Public Hearing – Appomattox Town Council & Appomattox Planning Commission

Tuesday, October 12, 2010

The Appomattox Town Council held a joint public hearing with the Appomattox County
Planning Commission on Tuesday, October 12, 2010 at 6:30 p.m. at the Carver Price Educational
Complex, 132 Price Lane, Appomattox, Virginia.

Town Council Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.,
Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Joyce B. Bennett
and Mayor Paul D. Harvey.

Planning Commission Members present:  Steve Conner, Earl Dickerson, Calvin Tanner, Marvin
Mitchell, Susan Hudson, Barry Morris, Michael Wirth and Chairman George Almond.

Others:  Johnnie Roark, County Planner and Roxanne Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the public hearing to order.

Chairman Almond called the Planning Commission to order.

Mr. Almond stated the purpose of the public hearing.

Mr. Almond, Mr. Conner, and Mr. Dickerson excused themselves from the discussion and
consideration of the petition.  All stated a conflict of interest as their reason.

CUP10007 – Jamerson Real Estate, requests a conditional use permit to locate an apartment
complex (multi-family dwelling) on property located at the intersection of Redfields Road and
Confederate Blvd. in Appomattox, Virginia.  The apartment complex will consist of up to 16
units and is further identified as TM #64A6(1) (A)1 and is approximately 1.663 acres in size.
The property is zoned M-1, Industrial Zoning District.  This petition will be a joint public
hearing with the Town Council of Appomattox.  If approved, this will amend the Town of
Appomattox’s zoning ordinance to include the use “multi-family dwelling” in Section 195-56 per
the requirements of Section 195-15, Uses not provided for, Special Exception.

Mr. Bill Jamerson stated that he was planning to build up to 16 apartments on the 1.6 acres.  The
apartments would be less obtrusive than other uses of the M-1 Industrial zoning allowed.  The
project is beneficial for jobs and the economy.  There is a need for the apartments and housing in
this area.

Mr. John Spiggle, 221 Countryside Drive, Appomattox – He is 100% against the proposed use of
the property.  There would be lots of noise and lots of traffic.  He doesn’t want the additional
traffic.  He stated that his neighbors are also against the project.  He asked that the Planning
Commission oppose the change.

The public hearing was declared closed for public comments at 6:37 p.m.

The Planning Commission discussed the petition.

2  Joint Public Hearing – Appomattox Town Council & Appomattox Planning Commission

Tuesday, October 12, 2010

A motion was made by Mr. Barry Morris, seconded by Mr. Michael Wirth to recommend the
request as submitted.  Vote:  Morris – aye, Wirth – aye, Mitchell – aye, Tanner – aye, Morris –
aye, Hudson – no.  The motion passed 4-1.

The joint public hearing was considered closed.

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

