1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 8, 2019

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, April 8, 2019 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present - Jonathan D. Garrett, James Boyce, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett,
Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present - Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Nathan Simpson, Information Technology
Technician; Sarah Honosky, News and Advance; Michelle Payne, Times Virginian; Nick Walton
Jeff Elder; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Roxanne Casto, Clerk
of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Mayor’s Comments:
None

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

On a motion by Mr. J. Garrett, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for April 8, 2019 as presented with the addition of NB#2-Closed Session. All members
present voting aye. Motion carried.

Unfinished Business:
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to adopt the Flat Rate
Structure increase for water and sewer rates for the next four (4) years, effective July 1, 2019. All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to appropriate $72,000
in the FY2020 budget for the Federal Lands Access Program (FLAP) application. All members
present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to convene in a Closed
Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the
purpose of performance and salaries of specific public employees of any public body,
specifically Employees A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N, O, P, Q, R, S, T, U, V, W, X, Y,
Z, AA, BB, CC, DD, EE.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 8, 2019

Vote:  J. Garrett – aye, Boyce – aye, Spiggle – aye, T. Garrett – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member J. Garrett made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia aw;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Puckette and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:  J. Garrett – aye, Boyce – aye, Spiggle – aye, T. Garrett – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye.

All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following:

➢  The 1946 Antique Fire truck has been relocated to the downstairs portion of the

Appomattox Municipal Building.

➢  Commended the Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department for their response to the

Railyard restaurant on Sunday.

➢  Staff has been working hard the last 30-60 days on the FY2020 budget.
➢  Dalgleish, Gilpin, Paxton continue to work on the budget numbers from Council’s

direction at the March 26 meeting.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 8, 2019

Council Concerns:

Mr. Boyce commented on the markings placed on Church Street by VDOT but believes they
should still investigate the visibility concerns. It is incumbent on Council to make this area safer.

Mayor Harvey also commended the Fire Dept for their response to the Railyard Restaurant.

On a motion by Mr. J. Garrett, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 8:15 pm.
All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

