1  Appomattox Town Council

Joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop
April 23, 2019

The Appomattox Town Council held a Joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop meeting on
Tuesday, April 23, 2019 following the 6:00 p.m. Public Hearing at the Appomattox Municipal
Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present: James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, Steven T.
Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Members absent: Jonathan Garrett

Others present: Chuck Warner, John Martin, Kiva Preston, James Maddox, Jeff Elder, Nathan
Simpson, Nick Walton, Kim Ray; Treasurer, Gary Shanaberger; Town Manager, and Roxanne
Casto, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Mayor Harvey opened the public hearing.

Roger Carson, Vice-Chairman, Town Planning Commission, called the Planning Commission
meeting to order.

Mayor Harvey stated the purpose:
To rezone parcels bought within the Town limits of Appomattox during the Voluntary Boundary
Line Adjustment in 2013. The tax map identification numbers are 63-2-1, 63-A-49, 63-A-54, 63-
A-55, 63-A-53, 63-A-52, 63-A-52A and 63-A-80. If the rezoning is approved, the parcel(s) will
be rezoned to B-2, except for 63-A-80 which will be rezoned to M-1. This rezoning will not
affect the current use of the property.

Mr. Shanaberger advised in the staff report that the properties are currently considered
unclassified.

There were no public comments.

Mayor Harvey closed this hearing.

Mayor Harvey opened the second public hearing and stated the purpose:
Kiva M. Preston does hereby request a rezoning application for tax map identification number
64A6-A26 and 64A6-A-26A. The property is currently zoned R-3 and the proposed zoning is B-
2 in order to create continuation of the B-2 business adjacent and across the street from other B-2
properties. This parcel is approximately 1.383 acres in size and is located on 275-277 Lucy
Street plus additional unaddressed parcel, Appomattox, Virginia.

Public comments:
Chuck Warner (327 Lucy St) spoke favorably of the application—It is a good spot, natural
zoning for this area.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop
April 23, 2019

John Martin (agent) spoke favorably of the application. The continuation of B-2 zoning is a good
fit for the area. Mr. Martin provided a copy of the plat for the Town Council & Planning
Commission to review.

Kiva Preston (applicant-325/327 Lucy Street)-Mr. Preston currently owns an automobile repair
shop in the area. He intends to live in the residential dwelling and these parcels allow him to
expand his business and provides him a place to live. He hopes to add a few more jobs.

James Maddox (1125 Confederate Blvd) This is great for business.

There were no other comments.

Mayor Harvey closed the second public hearing.

Mayor Harvey opened the third and final public hearing and stated the purpose:

To amend the Code of the Town of Appomattox Chapter 195, Article I, Section 1 thereof,
entitled “Definitions,” by amending certain definitions in such section, as more particularly
set forth herein, and to amend Chapter 195, Article V, Section 38 thereof, entitled “Statement
of Intent” as more particularly set forth herein.

Clarifying certain definitions contained in Chapter 195, Article I, Section 1, to read as
follows:

Dwelling:  Any structure which is designed for use for residential purposes, except hotels,
boardinghouses, lodging houses, tourist cabins, automobile trailers, motels, rooming houses,
mobile homes, and manufactured homes.

Dwelling, Multiple Family:  A dwelling arranged or designed to be occupied by more than
one family.

Dwelling, Single-Family:  A dwelling arranged or designed to be occupied by one family, the
structure having only one dwelling unit.

Amend by deleting and repealing Chapter 195, Article V, Section 38, and replacing it with a
section of the same number, to read as follows:

§195-38.  Statement of intent.
The R-3 General Residential District is composed of certain medium-to-high concentrations
of residential uses, ordinarily located between residential and commercial areas, plus certain
open areas where similar development appears likely to occur. The regulations for this
district are designed to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of the district, to
promote and encourage, insofar as compatible with the intensity of land use, a suitable
environment for family life composed of an adult population with some children, and to
permit certain commercial uses of a character unlikely to develop general concentration of

3  Appomattox Town Council

Joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop
April 23, 2019

traffic, crowds of customers and general outdoor advertising. To these ends, retail activity is
sharply limited and this district is protected against encroachment of general commercial or
industrial uses. Appropriate residential types of structures for both permanent and transient
occupancy and including institutions are permitted, plus structures for commercial uses
conforming to the pattern of the district. This residential district is not completely residential
as it includes public and semipublic, institutional and other related uses. However, it is
basically residential in character and, as such, should not be spotted with commercial and
industrial uses.

Staff Comments: Mr. Shanaberger informed Council that this change is a definition clarification.

There were no public comments.

Mayor Harvey closed the third and final hearing of the night.

Mr. Carson, Vice-Chairman of the Planning Commission adjourned the Planning Commission
meeting at 6:30 p.m.

Mayor Harvey proceeded with the Council Workshop Agenda items.

Staff presented the FY2020 Capital Improvement Plan for discussion, including items such as the
street sweeper and remodeling of the train depot.

Street Sweeper
Mr. Shanaberger informed Council of the Town’s need to review its procurement process for
used equipment.

-Mr. Garrett - asked if the one street sweeper the Town has now is working.
-Mr. Elder - stated it is in bad shape.
-Mr. Timmy Garrett - suggested leaving the street sweeper out of the CIP until the procurement
has been researched.
-Mr. Elder - responded that other localities buy used equipment.
-Mr. Timmy Garrett - Town still needs specs with a right to refusal.
-Mr. Elder - said he could call Mr. Spates with the Town of Farmville.
-Mr. Steven Conner - said Farmville never buys new stuff.
-Mr. Steven Conner - wants it done right but not rushed.
-Mr. Shanaberger informed Council that the VA Public Works Equipment company has a fleet of
35 trucks and they rotate 3 or 4 for sale every 6 months. If not this time, there will be another
opportunity.
-Mr. Steven Conner-Mr. Elder is right other places do not buy new equipment.

Consensus was provided by Council to leave the 300,000 in the CIP and work on the Town’s
procurement process.

4  Appomattox Town Council

Joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop
April 23, 2019

Train Depot Remodeling Project
-Mr. Conner - The Town needs to do something with the building because it is going to rot.

-Mr. Shanaberger advised he spoke with Craig Wilson, Summit Design regarding the possibility
of putting money in the budget to research grant opportunities.

-Mr. Timmy Garrett - How much for grant research? $20,000?

-Mr. Conner - stated he knew Craig Wilson had helped other localities.

-Mr. Conner - OK with $20,000-$25,000

-Mr. Shanaberger agreed $25,000 is a good number and that Historic Tax Credits were a good
avenue for money.

Consensus was provided by Council to include $25,000 in the CIP for grant research on the train
depot project.

Mr. Conner inquired if General Fund revenue or reserves could be used for water & sewer
projects.

Mr. Shanaberger advised that a letter was received from USDA clearly stating they would rather
the Town not do that.

Consensus was provided to advertise the public hearing for the proposed FY2020 budget for the
Town of Appomattox.

Committee Reports:
Both the F&P and PDC have been working diligently on the proposed FY2020 budget.

Staff Reports:
Gary Shanaberger recognized the efforts of Kim Ray, Treasurer for working with Brown
Edwards & Company, LLP to upload the FY 2018 audit to the Federal Audit Clearinghouse.
This was a new requirement because the town has received over $750,000 in federal funding
during the FY 2018 audit period.

Kim Ray, Treasurer provided the Financial report for April 2019 for balances ending March 31,
2019.

Jeff Elder, Facilities Director requested the Procurement Sheet signatures for the purchase of the
tractor.

Roxanne Casto, Clerk - none

5  Appomattox Town Council

Joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop
April 23, 2019

Mr. Shanaberger-
-Grass has been planted at the Children’s Park and thanked Public Works
-The food truck ordinance and outdoor burning ordinance revisions are expected to be complete
within the next 30 days.

Council Concerns:
-Mr. Timmy Garrett inquired when council is expected to vote on the zoning items from
tonight’s public hearing
-Mr. Shanaberger responded May 13, 2019.
-Mr. Conner inquired about the status of sidewalk improvements on Lee grant Ave. Mayor
Harvey asked if there was any way to move this up? Mr. Shanaberger advised the town staff is
still discussing the options. Mr. Elder stated that the little amount of time until July 1, 2019
wouldn’t hurt.
-Mayor Harvey reminded Council and visitors of the Courtland Festival park free event April 28,
2019 from 3:00-5:00 pm.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Timmy Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 7:20
pm. All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

