1  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
August 28, 2018

The Appomattox Town Council held a Council Workshop meeting on Tuesday, August 28, 2018
at 6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Susan Adams, Carlton Duck, Jeff Elder, Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary
Shanaberger, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Discussion of the Utility Rate Study –
Mr. Shanaberger requested to move this item to the Finance & Planning Committee for further
review and research.

Discussion of the Appomattox Tourism Committee request –
After much discussion, the request will be brought to the September Regular Council meeting for
consideration.  Mrs. Ray will investigate budget options.  Mr. Conner requested to know the
options before the September Regular meeting.

Consideration to award the Waterline Replacement Project –
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to award Toney
Construction, Inc. the waterline replacement project for Oakleigh Avenue and Cawthorne Street
for $92,000.00.  Roll call vote:  J. Garrett – yes, J. Boyce – yes, M. Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett –
yes, S. Conner – yes, C. Puckette – yes.  Motion carried 6-0.

Report on the Town Vehicle –
After much research, staff has narrowed down the request to the 2019 Ford Explorer.

On a motion by Mr. J. Garrett, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to purchase the 2019
Ford Explorer – Mid-Size – 4WD SUV through the State of Virginia Contract (eVa) for a cost
not to exceed $30,000.00.  Roll call vote: J. Garrett – yes, J. Boyce – yes, M. Spiggle – yes, T.
Garrett – yes, S. Conner – yes, C. Puckette – yes.  Motion carried 6-0.

Committee Reports – None

Council Concerns:
Mayor Harvey indicated that the Local Government Council is going to be asking for a name
change from Region 2000 back to the Central Virginia Planning District Commission.

Staff Reports –

Mr. Elder – none

2  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
August 28, 2018

Mrs. Casto – none

Mrs. Ray provided the July 2018 Financial Report to Council.

Mr. Shanaberger briefed Council on the following items:

➢  Attending a meeting in Richmond with Summit Design and Engineering regarding the

Downtown Revitalization Grant application.

➢  Dalgleish, Gilpin and Paxton will be hosting a community meeting on Thursday,

September 13, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. at the Train Depot to gain community input of the use of
the train depot.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Council Member T. Garrett, seconded by Council Member Puckette, Council
voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia,
1950, as amended, for the purpose of performance and salaries of a specific public employee of
any public body, specifically Employee A.

Vote:
J. Garrett – aye, Boyce – aye, Spiggle – aye, T. Garrett – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Conner made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Puckette and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:
J. Garrett – aye, Boyce – aye, Spiggle – aye, T. Garrett – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
August 28, 2018

On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

