1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 13, 2018

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, August 13, 2018 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Carlton Duck and Derek Norfield, Alive Media
TV; Nathan Simpson, Information Technology Technician; Bob Sayre, Laura Dawson, Anne
Dixon, Dana Mayberry, family and friends of Andrew Dalton Elder, Sr., Rev. Jonathan Watson,
Susan Adams, Tom Hart, News & Advance; Freelance reporter, Times Virginian; John Redding,
Coach Doug Smith, Ken Arpino, Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager
and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Jonathan Watson led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Mayor Harvey presented a “Key to the Town” and plaque of appreciation to Doug Smith, Head
Coach of the Appomattox County High School football team for this community service over the
last three years.  Coach Smith successfully lead the Appomattox Raiders to three (3) consecutive
state championships.

Coach Smith thanked the Town Council.

Jonathan D. Garrett and Timothy W. Garrett read and presented a proclamation of appreciation
to the family and friends of Andrew Dalton Elder, Sr. for his 50 plus years of service to the
Pamplin Volunteer Fire Department.

Dana Mayberry, Appomattox Tourism Committee provided an update on the activities the
committee has been working on over the past two (2) years.  The committee has increased from
10 partners to 24 partners.  The emphasis on advertising has been through social media and the
creation of a new website and commercial.  Appomattox is a thriving community and they are
working diligently to bring people to Appomattox, businesses to Appomattox and promoting
events in the community.

The committee requested a donation of $8,000.00 to continue with advertising and marketing
initiatives.

Council asked questions of the committee regarding how much has been spent to date?  Dana
Mayberry and Bob Sayre agreed it was between $35,000-40,000 but would be willing to provide
Council with a breakdown of their expenses.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 13, 2018

Anne Dixon informed Council that Leisure Media Publishing is responsible for publishing the
state travel guide.  The state travel guide is the #1 advertisement in the state.  It is distributed
worldwide.

Bob Sayre advised Council that 14 of the 24 entities meet monthly but talk weekly.  The goals of
each entity are to keep visitors in Appomattox longer to spend more money.  The committee is
trying to expand beyond Lynchburg and Farmville to the Roanoke and Petersburg/Richmond
areas.

John Redding informed Council of the Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce that will be
available soon to assist tourists and travelers.

Mayor Harvey and Council thanked the committee for the presentation, handouts and
information.  The program (initiative) has grown a lot over the last 2 ½ years.

Mayor’s Comments:
The Council will take the request of the Appomattox Tourism Committee for $8,000.00 under
advisement.

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for August 13, 2018 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to table the purchase of a
2018 Dodge Journey through the State of Virginia Contract (eVA) for a cost not to exceed
$30,000 until Mr. Shanaberger can do more research.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried 6-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to proceed with the
Downtown Revitalization project and accept the proposal of $18,700 from Summit Design and
Engineering to complete the Downtown Revitalization Grant application.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to write off delinquent
accounts having reach the statue of limitations, specifically $98.53 for Real Estate Taxes,
$3,508.36 for Personal Property taxes and $1,979.60 for Utility accounts.  All member present
voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

There was no action taken regarding the consideration of the Lynchburg Regional Business
Alliance 2018 Contribution invoice.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 13, 2018

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to approve an out of
town waterline extension with a connection waive and secured easement to the bridge for the
Appomattox Christian Academy on Redfield Road.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried 6-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by T. Garrett, Council voted to approve the following
Resolution:

AMENDMENT TO THE APPROPRIATIONS RESOLUTION OF THE APPOMATTOX
TOWN COUNCIL ADOPTING THE FISCAL YEAR 2018-2019 BUDGET FOR THE
TOWN OF APPOMATTOX, VA.

Amend Section IV:

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 58.1-
3524(C)(2) and Section 58.1-3912(E) of the Code of Virginia, as amended by Chapter 1 of the
Acts of Assembly (2004 Special Session 1) and as set forth in Item 503.E (Personal Property Tax
Relief Program) of Chapter 951 of the 2005 Acts of Assembly any qualifying vehicle sitused
within the Town commencing January 1, 2018, shall receive personal property tax relief in the
following manner:

•  Personal use vehicles valued at $1,000 or less will be eligible for 100% tax relief;
•  Personal use vehicles valued at $1,001 to $20,000 will be eligible for 62.65% tax relief;
•  Personal use vehicles valued at $20,001 or more shall only receive 62.65% tax relief on

the first $20,000 of value; and

•  All other vehicles which do not meet the definition of “qualifying” (business use

vehicles, farm use vehicles, motor homes, etc.) will not be eligible for any form of tax
relief under this program.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following:

➢  The architecture firm, Dalgliesh, Gilpin, Paxton will be hosting a community meeting on
Thursday, September 13, 2018 at 7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Train Depot (Visitor’s
Center), 214 Main Street to solicit input regarding the renovations of the train depot.  The
Town will advertise the event.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 13, 2018

➢  Staff has made significant progress on the food truck ordinance.  He has canvassed 6 or 7

other communities.

Council Concerns:
None

On a motion by Council Member Spiggle, seconded by Council Member Puckette, Council voted
to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950,
as amended, for the purpose of performance and salaries of a specific public employee of any
public body, specifically Employee A.

Vote:
J. Garrett – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Conner made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member J. Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:
J. Garrett – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council adjourned at 9:50 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

