COUNCIL MEETING – August 8, 2005

The Appomattox Town Council met in Regular Session on Monday, August 8, 2005 at 7:30 p.m. at the Municipal Building on Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present:  N. H. Mayberry, Marvin H. Mitchell, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Steven E. Lawson.  Members absent:  Joyce B. Bennett and John L. Wilson.

Others present:  Frank A. Wright, Jr., Town Attorney, David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager, Jeff H. Elder, Utility Director, Derek Norfield and Carlton Duck, Alive TV, Jackie Drinkard, Penny Taylor, Bill Burke, Mike Scott, Zach Smith, News & Advance, Chad Millner, Times Virginian, Rick Butler and Roxanne W. Paulette, Town Clerk.

Mayor Spiggle called the meeting to order and gave an invocation.

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to approve the consent agenda of August 8, 2005 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Appearances –

Jackie Drinkard, President Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce appeared before Council to request Town Council to seriously consider “publicly” endorsing Liquor by the Drink.

Standing Committee Reports –

Property & Street Committee – Councilmember Lawson gave an update on Abbitt Park.

The electrical service is in at the Park.  The next projects will be to try to place a cover over the stage and replace the tents at the park with a permanent pavilion.

Utility Committee – Councilmember McDearmon referred to Mr. Garrett for an update on Phase I of Sunnydale Avenue.  The construction phase is complete.  The next project for George E. Jones will be the sewer line extension on Park Lane for Glory Baptist Church.

Mr. Garrett also reported that Well #41 is out of service due to mechanical problems and Well #9 is out of service due to the lack of water.

Ordinance Committee – Mr. Garrett reported that the Ordinance Committee, Town Manager and Town Attorney are finalizing the review of the Town Code.

Unfinished Business – none

Page 2 of 2

August 8, 2005

New Business –

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted to purchase 100 water meters from Carolina Meter for replacement to the AMR Orion system.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted to purchase the necessary pump, motor and pipe for repairs to Well #41 in order to get the well back online.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted to support the issue of “Liquor by the Drink” to be placed on the November referendum.

Vote:  Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Mitchell – no, Lawson – no.  With a tie vote, the Mayor voted no.  The motion was defeated.

Town Manager reports were all located in the package.

Zoning Administrator reminded Council of the Joint Planning Commission Public Hearing on Monday, August 15, 2005 at 7:00 p.m. at the Town Office for the purpose of hearing citizen’s comments regarding the update of the zoning map.  A public hearing is required before the maps can be officially adopted.

The Mayor reported that the American Battlefield Protection Grant was not funded for the property owned by G. H. & Joyce Jamerson.  Only 12 of the 40 applications received were funded.  Kristin Peppel will be obtaining additional material for the Mayor.

Rick Butler appeared before Council to discuss the Timber Tract recently harvested by the Town on Rt. 604 (Promise Land Road).  The pines recently planted after the timber was harvested have been taken over by undergrowth.   The Virginia Department of Forestry is recommending treating the undergrowth for approximately $2050.00.  The Town would be eligible to receive 35% of the cost to be refunded.

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to follow the advice of the Virginia Department of Forestry and spray the hardwood undergrowth.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Lawson, Council voted to adjourn at 8:25 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC				Ronald C. Spiggle,

Town Clerk						Mayor
