# REGULAR MEETING – July 08, 2002

Page 1 of 2

p.m. with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present: M. H. Mitchell, N. H. Mayberry, C. L. McDearmon, Jr., W. H. Carson, Joyce
Bennett. Absent: S. E. Lawson

Others present: John Wilson, Biff Gilliam, Lisa Knott, Ron Brown, Charles Garrett, Earl

Dickerson, Bif Johnson, Hill Jones, Jack Moeller, IMT, Gary Miller, IMT, W. M. Phillips, Town
Attorney, David T. Garrett, Jr, Town Manager and Roxanne Paulette, Deputy Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.
Ona motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to remove item NB-1
Consideration to release Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. from General Engineering Services from the

Consent Agenda and send to the Utility Committee. All members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council adopted the Consent Agenda as
presented with the removal of NB-1. All members voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. John Wilson gave a presentation to Council Members of his request to search for other

--"aernatives to the lack of rain-and current town water conditions-—--» —-~- ---~ coe ee

There were no standing committee reports.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, the Street Committee requests an additional streetlight be
erected on Pine Street, All members voting aye. Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle advised Council that a letter has been written to the Historical Society requesting
them to submit reasoning to the request of naming the 460 ByPass the C. T. Moses, Jr. Memorial

Highway.

Mayor Spiggle also advised Council that he is waiting on a response from the VDOT
Appomattox Residency Office concerning the two-way.stop at Main Street and Church Street.

Ona motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to adopt the Water
Conservation Policy as presented. All members voting aye. Motion carried. (See attached copy)

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to enact the Water
Conservation Ordinance as presented. All members voting aye. Motion carried. (See attached

copy)

On amotion by Mr. McDearmon, the Utility Committee requests the prohibition of wells being
drilled within the Town limits. All members voting aye. Motion carried. (See attached copy)

be
aA

AGI: