1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, November 9, 2015
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch and Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent:   Steven T. Conner

Others present:  Daniel Puckette, Times Virginian; Ashlie Walter, News & Advance; Carlton
Duck and Brian Moore, Alive Media TV; Mark Thomas, Southside Electric Cooperative; Ben
Bowman, Region 2000 Workforce Development Director; Gary Christie, Executive Director,
Region 2000 Local Government Council; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Stacey Wilkes, Town
Treasurer; and C. William Gillespie, Jr., Town Manager, and Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed all the visitors.

Rev. Brian Moore opened the meeting with a prayer and led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments:  Mayor Harvey thanked staff and Council for helping with the Halloween
event in Abbitt Park on Thursday, October 29, 2015.  The Town served almost 500 hot dogs.

Mayor Harvey also commented that there is an important item for consideration on tonight’s
agenda.  He hopes that everyone has had a chance to look at it carefully.  We were all elected to
replace a Council that wasn’t doing much from the general fund.  It’s time for us to show what
we were elected for.  We’ve only done a few items (the Abbitt Park, inside the railroad depot and
a few small sidewalk projects).  We have put a lot of money into this and hundreds and hundreds
of staff hours to get this project together.  This has come together as more of a family park
instead of just a kiddie park.  Part of our mission statement [in there on the wall] is to improve
the quality of life and we have an opportunity to do that with this new park.  So I hope everyone
has had an opportunity to look through the material so we can discuss it tonight.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Mark Thomas, Community Relations Coordinator for Southside Electric Cooperative appeared
before Council to introduce himself.  He has been on the job for about 5 months.  He has been
going around the area speaking to Towns, Counties and chambers.  Southside Electric
Cooperative offers more than electricity.  While there are 1670 connections in the County of
Appomattox, none are actually in the Town.  Southside Electricity has not had a loss injury in 2
years.  Southside has been sponsoring and partnering with the following:  Appomattox Railroad
Festival, Appomattox 1865 Foundation Lantern Tours, the Appomattox Angels softball team that
went the World Series, College Scholarships and youth tours in Washington, DC.  Mr. Thomas
thanked Council for allowing him the opportunity to speak.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

Mr. Ben Bowman, Director of the Workforce Development Board updated Council on the past
year, stating it has been a very busy year.  They have been focused on imposing guidelines of the
Workforce Innovation Opportunity Act.  This fall, they will be working with the County library
to meet the needs of the County’s youth and adults who may need assistance with job searches.
They continue to work with the Appomattox County Economic Development Director, Jeff
Taylor.  The goal is to make sure anyone looking for training services is assisted.

There were no questions from Council.  Mr. Bowman thanked Council for allowing him the
opportunity to come out and speak to them.

Mr. Gary Christie, Executive Director, Region 2000 Local Government Council presented the
Annual Report.  Mr. Christie reported that the spring 2016 Annual Dinner would be held at the
new hotel in the April.  The Local Government Council has assisted the Town the
Comprehensive Plan, CDBG Greater Meadowlark Grant, Housing Study, and the Safety Traffic
Study (Main & Church Street).

The Local Government Council is working with Appomattox Council on their comprehensive
plan, solid waste disposal, an agricultural grant, and tourism initiative.  For every $1 in dues paid
by localities, the commission generates into $41 of grant money.

The Local Government Council continues to work with VDOT on the new transportation priority
system, HB 2 ranking (providing input) on the Route 131 and 460 corridor.

Mr. Christie also reminded Council that the Local Government Council is not involved with the
merger between the Economic Development Alliance and the Lynchburg Chamber of
Commerce.  The merger is expected to be finalized in January 2016.

There were no questions from Council.

Mr. Christie thanked Council for the opportunity.

Consent Agenda –

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for November 9, 2015 as presented.
Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Puckette – yes.
Absent:  Conner
Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business –
Council consideration to award the bids for the upgrades to the Children’s Park.
Mayor Harvey – we have the bids that were presented at the last regular meeting (October) and
nothing has changed.  Does anyone have anything they would like to bring up to discuss?

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

Mrs. Puckette – I have a couple of things – I have been hearing some conflicting information and
I just want to get straight on what we did do and I was told that – I wish Mr. Conner was here
tonight so he could help me understand but he told me at the County Industrial Park when the
Governor was here and that Proctor Harvey did the bidding process for what we have and he told
me that the advertising was only done on the internet and that is why we have such few bids.
Can anyone address this for me- is that what happened?  My thought was it was done the way we
always do stuff – I would just like to find out – does anyone know what really happened?

Mr. Gillespie said he remembers because he did it.  I didn’t want Proctor Harvey to do the bid
documents or put the packages together primarily because of all the alternates we had so anyway
I did all that and I wanted to be able to put the language in there to give Council the most
flexibility and be able to choose since you wanted to be able to see specific things with specific
numbers, instead of a lump sum – this way you wouldn’t have to go back and negotiate it.  I also
handled the advertisement.  It wasn’t advertised on the internet.  It was advertised publically in
the newspaper.  The Clerk was the one who put it in the paper.  I did the notice – she advertised
it.  I don’t know where that information came from but it met Procurement law, the way we did
it.

Puckette – Again, I wish Steve were here but he told me that and I just wanted to be sure.  Would
there have been anything wrong with us putting the bids on the internet?

Mr. Gillespie – It wouldn’t have been anything wrong with it but we are traditionalist and we
have always advertised locally but we decided to advertise in the Lynchburg paper to give us
more coverage.  I thought we did what we needed to do and most contractors (be it big or small)
usually subscribe to a solicitation service that lets them know these things are coming.  We also
put it in on Sunday, which is when most companies are looking for this type of thing.

Puckette – So there was nothing unusual about how this was handled?

Gillespie – No

Puckette – Thank you

Wilkes – It is also required by procurement law to place the advertisement in the newspaper.

Puckette – So the next point is probably mute but since we didn’t pay Proctor Harvey to do the
bidding process, then we didn’t pay him $20,000 for the bids.

Gillespie – He (Proctor) basically put together the bid specifications for all the equipment, the
layout and design drawings.

Puckette – That’s something we voted on

Gillespie – Correct

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

Puckette – Other things Mr. Conner had spoken to that he isn’t here to share was information
from other localities.  So anyway…

Gillespie – If you are speaking of the Chilhowie proposal, which I have seen – there is really no
comparison to the Chilhowie.  It was basically 2 pieces of play equipment.  The scope of work
you have approved and the conceptual layout is much larger than that.  You basically have 4
groups – 0-2, 2-5, 5-12 and a handicapped area.  You essentially have a much larger scope than
what the other one (Chilhowie) was.  You have pavilions, benches, and grills.  The scopes are no
comparison - $150,000-160,000 in comparison.

Puckette – So we aren’t comparing apples to apples then?

Gillespie – Not really

Puckette – Finally, isn’t Little Tikes one of the best companies to get for playground equipment?
I thought I overhead Timmy (Garrett) say it was a good company.  That’s my experience it’s a
good company.

Gillespie – I called 4 localities – Charlottesville, York County, Powhatan and another one – all
using Little Tikes as their standard and Charlottesville has done 8-10 playgrounds.

Puckette – I remembered them from my teachings days and I think they are a good company.
From what you see here are the prices reasonable?

Gillespie – Maybe the Clerk could speak better to that – She’s been working on this for at least 3
years – priced it – I would think it is.

Casto – I know the books I have all indicate these are good prices – It’s in line with everything I
have in my office.

Puckette – I am generally low in prices when looking for estimates – I was figuring $450,000 so
again my estimate is a little low and true to form for me.

Harvey – Are there any other council member questions, comments or ideas?

Garrett – One concern I have, due to being in the process of purchasing the land beside it I think
we need to look at how that’s going to play into the whole project, before we go spending
$500,000 or whatever we spend or agree to.

I think it may even dictate where we put the equipment, in my mind – in lieu of what we were
talking about.  I think that needs to be looked at or considered.

I am all for doing what we are talking about doing but I think we’ve done a lot since we’ve been
on Town Council.  We are moving forward – trying to everyday – I do think we need to if we are
not going to approve it tonight – how much ground are we going to lose – coming up on the

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

winter months.  I don’t have any problems with the items we got out to bid but I think we can get
some other companies in and we can get some fairer prices in.  I think we need to look at how
this other piece of property is going to affect this.  We may want to shift the whole thing and the
change the whole layout and change the whole thing in my mind.  The money – I don’t have a
problem spending the money – but I want a good project not one that’s washed down the hill
where it’s at now.  The land where it is at and the project can be utilized to include the other
piece of property and in the middle of buying.  Right now if we go with what we’ve got it will all
be put on the lower end.

Puckette – Were we going to use the other (new Abbitt property) for parking?

Garrett – Well the way it was - the new land was not looked at with the project he designed.  We
might be able to utilize the new property to make a better park – a better project.  That’s the only
problem I have.

Harvey – I would sit here and disagree with you.  This property in the design process wouldn’t
really change that much.  If you are talking about redesigning it – redoing it – bid proposals and
change the scope – plans and everything.

Garrett – Well I don’t understand that.

Gillespie – You can compare it to “shopping” the bid.  You would have to change it.  You can’t
advertise the same thing.  The other thing is that the bids are no good after this month.  So the
point may be mute.

Garrett – It could be less

Gillespie – It could be more

Spiggle – It could be less

Garrett – We talked about it years ago – about buying the property – and since then we’ve
designed this park.  In my mind it would be better to have a playground on a flatter piece of land
than on a hill.  That’s all I’m bringing up.

Harvey – Isn’t grading in the project?

Garrett – Not in the specs

Gillespie – All the parking was to keep away from the play area.  It was never considered before.

Spiggle – I am of the opinion that Timmy has.  None of us have a problem whatsoever with
redoing the Kiddie Park.  It is not about that.  We all want to do this and bring the best park or
the family park as the best park possible and now we have decided to purchase some land which
adjoins it and is contiguous to it so what are we going to do with that property?  Let’s take a deep

6  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

breath and take another look at it – see if we can do better – even better.  Once you get the
Kiddie Park done it’s going to be there for 20-30 years.  It’s already been there for 20 years.  It’s
almost winter.  Let’s slow down a little bit and reconsider this.  I agree with Timmy – I believe
we can do better but we do want to do it.  I don’t want that laid on me or Timmy or anyone.  No,
you are against spending money on the public – that’s not it at all.  I just say let’s get the best
deal we can.  Let’s do the best we can for the public.

Puckette – Do you have any idea what it will cost for dollars if we put this off?  Specs and plans?
Redo?  $20,000 already.

Gillespie – I don’t have a feel for the scope.  If you are talking about the same scope you have to
be careful of that – You don’t want a contractor coming back and saying you know my price now
and now you want to shop my price.  With a public bid you cannot do that.  Privately a lot of
people do that.  If it’s the same scope or something else – I don’t know what you’re saying.

Puckette – Are you saying…

Harvey – The scope has to change.

Garrett – I don’t understand that – It’s the same scope, it’s the same equipment.  It takes the
same scope to put it in the ground.

Gillespie – What am I saying?  Is the prices are no good after this month.

Garrett – We have the right to refuse all the bids and rebid it.

Spiggle – That would be ok in my mind.

Gillespie – That’s what you’d have to do – rebid it.

Puckette – Are you thinking of putting additional equipment in or what’s the purpose?

Garrett – I don’t think we can afford additional equipment.  It is just the lay of the land.  You go
to a playground that is on a slope as opposed to a flat piece of land.  I didn’t see any excavating
in that proposal, except where they are going to put the bathrooms maybe.  How much leveling
of the land….they can’t do a whole lot.  It’s going to be on a hill.  We have a hard time at the
schools keeping the fall protection material to stay in the playground.  Now that we have that
piece of land – look at shifting it to a…the parking change that around…yes maybe it will cost us
more money but it will make a better park on a flatter piece of property than on the side of a hill
going to creek.

Puckette – I never noticed it being on a hill – maybe I’ve missed something.

Garrett – I don’t know what the grade is but it slopes to the stormwater creek.

7  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

Puckette – Do you think the stuff there now has washed out?

Garrett – Everything I have with less slope than that has washed out.

Puckette – I mean over there – have you seen where it’s washed out?

Garrett – Jeff have you had any rutting out over there?

Jeff Elder – The kids kick stuff out and it goes down the hill.  Kids are going to play in it.

Puckette – Well they are going to kick it out one way or another.

Garrett – I am all for doing everything we’ve talked about down there.

Spiggle – Me too

Garrett – I just think we need to look at it with the new piece of property.

Finch – I have a question about the alternates and putting it back out to bid.  The contractor with
the lowest responsible base bid was not able to give us a quote on the alternates?

Gillespie – No, the way the bid is structured, the Town bid statement says that the Town reserves
the right to offer the lowest responsible bid and any collection of alternates.

Finch – That was my question – would it have to go back out to bid?

Gillespie – No, not because of that.

Puckette – Best case scenario – I am just trying to understand if we did it your way – stopped
everything and relooked at it – what is the best thing that you see that could come from it – what
are you really looking for to happen – that isn’t going to happen anyway?
Question for Timmy or Mary Lou – either one…

Garrett – Just a better playground – better environment on a flatter piece of land than it is on a
slope (chuckle) from kids running – any playground company will tell you that they’d rather put
it on a flat surface than on the side of a hill.  You can call anyone of them and they would tell
you the flatter the better.  That’s all – the land we are looking at buying is a whole lot better than
the current location.

Puckette – And just to move the equipment from one side to another we would have to redo the
whole process?

Gillespie – No, if you keep the same scope – if I am understanding what he is saying, you could
award it now and just move it where you want to move it.

8  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

Harvey – That was going to be my question

Puckette – well, then that might save us money

Harvey – Go ahead and purchase the equipment we’ve talked about and then redesign the
process if that’s agreeable.

Puckette – How much do you think Proctor Harvey would charge us to do that?

Gillespie – I don’t know – but it couldn’t be much.  I think what they were trying to do was to
group the ages together so you could keep the kids all in one area.  Then have the picnic areas
away from that.  Mr. Garrett’s talking about moving an area to that property or another area or
relocate the road.

Puckette – And not have to change all this?

Gillespie – If you have to relocate the road then obviously you are talking about more money.  If
you are talking about moving the equipment – then you just move it.  That’s not a big deal.
Instead of it being over here it would be over there.

Puckette – Would that be agreeable Timmy?

Garrett – I think we need to get other prices.

Spiggle – I do too – We can get better prices.

Puckette – Why do you think that?

Spiggle – We only got 2 people to bid and tell me the total bid?

Harvey – what are you basing that on?

Spiggle – Tell me the total bid Roxanne, say it out loud.

Casto – The total?  I don’t have that.  I have the base bid as $201,129.

Spiggle – Did you not say $550,000?

Casto/Harvey – no – I didn’t say that.  I have on my notes at the bottom that alternate #1 the base
bid, alternate 1, option 2 with tough coat - $406,381.

Puckette - $406,381 – I hate to see that price get away from us.

9  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

Harvey – The other 3 alternates the Town could do.  We felt like in talking with Mr. Gillespie
and Jeff we could get it at $550,000 to do the other parts.  Mr. Gillespie has already researched
the pre-fab toilets and can get them for $65,000.

Puckette – That’s a whole lot more than $20,000.

Harvey – Steve was looking at a waterless one which is has a lot of odor issues.

Gillespie – It has one stall inside instead of 2.

Spiggle – So when you add the alternate plans to the $406,381, the total is?

Harvey – we are going to try to come in at $550,000

Spiggle – That’s what I said to begin with.

Harvey – no, you said…

Spiggle – The bid is lower than that, but in order to accomplish everything we want to do is
$550,000 which is more than a half a million dollars.  And, we have the money but we need to be
fiscally responsible with the money and not just say “we have the money, we need to spend it”.

Harvey – I don’t think anyone on this council is saying that

Spiggle – you said that to me Paul

Harvey – No, I said we have the money to pay for this and we have a good bid in hand.

Spiggle – That’s not what you said – That’s fine - we need to spend the money wisely and be
fiscally responsible.

Puckette – I think part of this is that Steve had told all of us when the Governor was here…

Spiggle – My opinion is not based on anything Steve’s told me

Puckette – (continued) these bids were too high – and I was hoping he was going to be here
tonight and I asked him to bring some concrete evidence of that.  That we were looking at too
much money because if other people are saying, that we trust and we pay this is their job – this is
what they do all day, every day and they are telling us that this is a good bid and Mr. Conner said
it was not and he was basing his information down in Matthews County and I wanted to see the
facts and figures because I’ve thought about it and figure it up in my mind and I think this is a
good price and my fear is that if we reject this tonight and go back to the drawing board your
prices will be higher next time because everything goes up.  I’ve never seen stuff like this go
down.  That’s my experience – maybe you know things come down more than I do – My fear is
that if we are too afraid to act and put this wherever you deem appropriate that we will cost the

10  Appomattox Town Council

Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

people more money down the road.  We know what we have right here $406,831 to do this part –
waiting on the other alternates.  You are taking a gamble – it could go down yes, but it could also
go up.  And that would be more of a historical way for it to go.  For that reason, I am hesitant to
let these numbers get away from us.  I could be wrong – y’all could prove me wrong tomorrow.
This is what I’ve observed.

Harvey – Mr. Garrett you stated that you don’t have a problem spending the money but you
don’t like the design so if we go back to the drawing board after we agree to the equipment we
are purchasing  (you may be objecting to the price too).  Do you still have an objection to buying
the equipment as we bid it?  Is there still an issue for you and Mrs. Spiggle?

Garrett – How many bids did we get on the playground equipment?  Was it just 2?

Gillespie – It was 4

Garrett – I’m not counting Jamerson

Gillespie – Well 5 if you add Jamerson

Harvey – Carolina Recreation Design and Virginia Playground Equipment were disqualified
because they didn’t put in the concrete pads under the pavilions.  It was bid to the specs.  They
were not responsible bids.

Puckette – How can you say that you’re going to get a whole lot more bids in the next process?
They have done the bidding process the same way they have always done it.  I don’t know how
or where a whole bunch more companies are going to come from that haven’t had the
opportunity to see this ad.  The bidding process was done like we’ve been told here tonight not
some internet mess like we’ve been told.

Harvey – We aren’t making much progress here tonight.

Garrett – I’d like Proctor to look at the land and see how this whole thing can be revisited cause
he may come up with something better than he has now.  This thing isn’t going to happen…if we
don’t vote tonight…

Harvey – If you don’t vote tonight, then this goes away

Garrett – well

Harvey – these bids, this price goes away tonight

Garrett – That’s fine – I just feel like it needs to be revisited by Proctor Harvey – along with the
other property we are trying to buy.

11  Appomattox Town Council

Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

Harvey – The point we are trying to make is if we award the bid – you get the equipment and he
can redesign it in a different way.  You don’t agree with that?

Garrett – My 5th sense is telling me no.  We aren’t going to get it put in even with good prices
before spring of 2016 anyway.

Puckette – So you’re willing to take the gamble that the prices aren’t going to be more at a later
time?

Harvey – Ask each one of you to say whether you are for it or against it and state your reason.
This isn’t a vote.  If we don’t have a consensus you’ll have to put the negative vote out there.

Garrett – No, because it needs to be revisited by the engineer and laid out on the property as
stated and I think we can get a better price even if we have to rebid it.  They might grant us the
price they already gave us – who said they won’t?

Gillespie – They told me the will not give the same price.

Garrett – Fine – we will rebid the whole thing then.

Puckette – Why do you feel you’ll get a better price later?

Spiggle – Claudia – I think we are going one by one.

Harvey – She asked Mr. Garrett a question.

Spiggle – I though you said one by one.

Harvey – I did but let him answer – it’s a discussion.  Mr. McDearmon will be next.

Garrett – I said may get a cheaper price.  It will cost us either way.  I don’t want to put something
in that will cause it not to be a good park.

McDearmon – If we buy this equipment that we put bids in on now – it will probably not be put
in until spring and by then shift it over to the new land if need be.

Garrett – This bid isn’t just buying the equipment – it’s also putting it in.

McDearmon – I can’t imagine it matters where you put it.

Spiggle – It’s bigger than just buying the equipment.  Mr. Gillespie just said we can’t change the
scope.

12  Appomattox Town Council

Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

McDearmon – I think we need to go ahead and buy the equipment and see where we want to put
it on the 2 pieces of property in the spring.  I just think we need to go ahead and get it at this
price.  I don’t think it’s going to come down.

Spiggle – I disagree.  I agree with what Timmy says.  I think this isn’t just about buying the
equipment.  The bid is about more than that – putting it in.  So I think we can get a better price
for putting it in and I think we need to ask Proctor Harvey (he didn’t even know we  were going
to buy this property) since we’ve engaged with him to look at it and so why are we in such a
hurry to do this?  I vote no.

Finch – At this point, I am for the park and getting it done.  I do have a lot of questions and if
there are this many questions during the process then it’s not a bad idea to have a rebid done.

Puckette – I am of the same opinion as Lewis – We have a good price I would like to see us
secure the price.  No one here has told me why the price isn’t good and that we can get another
one.  I don’t feel good about waiting to get a better one.  That is typically not the way it works.

Harvey – Mr. Gillespie has been told that the prices will not be duplicated in a rebid.

Puckette – Costing the people money.

Harvey – Everyone has had opportunity to express their opinion.  My feeling is that the
discussion can end.  Need to put a motion on the floor and vote whichever way you want to go.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to accept the bid
from MRS Recreation – Ashland, Virginia - $201,129 for the base bid, $50,992 for Alt #1,
$145,860 for Alt #2, $8,400 for Tough Coat Surface for a total of $406,381.00.  Alternates #3, 4
and 5 will be put together and done by the Town as part of completing the park.
Roll call vote:  Garrett – deny, McDearmon – accept, Spiggle – deny, Finch – deny, Puckette –
accept, Conner – absent.  Motion denied 3-2 to not pursue the bids as presented.

Puckette – What’s the next step Mr. Gillespie?

Gillespie – I don’t know.  I need somebody to tell me what you want.

Garrett – I make a recommendation we get with Proctor and let him look at the additional piece
of property and give us his input on what would make a better park or a good park – won’t say
good because he did good to start with.

Puckette – It must not have been good enough.

Garrett – It’s not that – It’s just the lay of the land.  You can’t look at it from right here.  You
need to go down there and visit it to see what I’m talking about.

Harvey – Are you making that into a motion Mr. Garrett?

13  Appomattox Town Council

Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

Garrett – Yes, I can make that into a motion.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to ask Proctor Harvey to
reevaluate the project with the additional property and come back with a recommendation.

Harvey – Do you want to find out his fee first?

Gillespie – I think he is going to have to meet with someone first to find out what the scope will
be first.

Mr. Garrett withdrew the motion, seconded by Ms. Spiggle

Mr. Gillespie will contact Proctor Harvey to explain where Council wants to go and have him
draw up the scope.

Gillespie – It may be good for Council to meet with Proctor Harvey – I may be interpreting
something incorrectly.

Harvey – Think we can get him [Proctor] here for the December meeting?

Gillespie – I will check with him [Proctor].

New Business -

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adopt a resolution
amending the FY 2016 Operating Budget for the General Fund for FY 2015-2016 for the carry
forward of funding of incomplete projects from FY 2015

WHEREAS, Section15.2-2507, Code of Virginia, allows that a governing body may amend the
budget from time to time

1.  NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby

amend the FY 2016 Operating Budget for the General Fund for FY 2015-2016 for the carry
forward of funding for incomplete projects

General Fund Expenditures
Council
    (WaterPark)
Property Maintenance & Construction
    (Sidewalks - $82,150, Town Hall Improvements -$35,000,
        Slurry Parking - $ 35,000, and Kiddie Park design - $16,103)

  $  35,000

Net Increase in Budget

    168,253
 $ 203,253

14  Appomattox Town Council

Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

General Fund Revenues

Use of Undesignated Reserve
Net Increase in Budget

 $ 203,253
$  203,253

SECTION XIII:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the Fiscal
Year 2016 budget amendments are hereby adopted, and the monies necessary to fund it are
hereby appropriated and shall be certified by the Clerk of Council and maintained as an archive
document with the official minutes of the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia.
Amended this 9th day of November 2015.
Attest:

Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk

VOTE:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Puckette – yes.  Conner –
absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to award the Concrete
Sidewalk Repair and/or Replacement Contract to C. Lee White Construction for $84.00/sq. ft.,
total cost of $162,150.00, with the work to be completed in the spring of 2016.
Roll Call Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Puckette – yes.
Conner – absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

Update from Appomattox County Schools regarding Fiber:
Mr. Gillespie reported that he had a discussion with Mr. Arbogast and the goal is to provide fiber
throughout the Town.  Mr. Gillespie suggested forming an exploratory committee but the process
has a long way to go.

Mr. Garett stated that right now they are getting the connection points through the schools.

(A written report was included with the agenda packet)

Update on the Meadowlark – CDBG project:
Mr. Gillespie stated that the Town received information from the contract negotiations meetings
held on October 13, 2015.  All of the town’s requirements should be received by DHCD by
January 4, 2016.

Update on the Appomattox Business District Revitalization Project (Downtown Business
District):
The Town of Appomattox has been notified that up to $25,000 is available to the Town for
developing solutions that identify the needs in the Appomattox Business District Revitalization
Project.

15  Appomattox Town Council

Regular Council Meeting
November 9, 2015

Town Manager’s Report – none

Treasurer’s Report – Stacey Wilkes provided Council with highlights of each fund (General,
Water & Sewer) revenues and expenditures through September 2015.

Citizen Comment Period – none

Council Concerns – none

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 8:50 p.m.
Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Puckette – yes.
Absent:  Conner
Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

