ref: reel_02_0599
date: 1971-11-12
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held November 12, 1971 at 7:30 P.M. in the Council Room with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were Mrs. Calvin Robinson, Burke Guill, T. E. Conner, W. L. Webb, Ivey Holland, and R. C. Hubbard.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Hubbard reported that one meeting has been held, and another meeting will be held on November 30 to make plans for a rat-eradication campaign, and to publicize the future County Sanitary Land Fill.

The Fire Committee was asked to decide on the lettering for the new fire truck.

Conner moved and Holland seconded that the following proposed ordinance be advertized in the Times-Virginian for two weeks:

Sec. 4-1. Keeping Fowl, Livestock, etc.

It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association, or corporation to allow or permit any fowl or poultry, or livestock of any description, to stray to public property or private premises of another, and all poultry, fowl or livestock shall be sufficiently housed or fenced up by the owner or person exercising control over such poultry, etc., so as to prevent the same from trespassing or straying.

The lot where any livestock is kept within the Town must have an area of at least two and one half (2½) acres for each head of livestock, and the lot must be at least one hundred (100) feet from any dwelling.

Sec. 4-1-1.

STABLES: A suitable stable shall be maintained for the animal/or animals within the lot, and shall be approved by the Health Department before a permit is issued.

(a) Every stable in the Town shall be thoroughly cleaned at least once a day, and shall have sufficient light to make cleaning practicable, and sufficient ventilation to keep the stable air pure at all times.

(b) Every stable shall have either within or immediately adjoining, a watertight, covered room or box, bin, or barrel for receiving and holding manure and litter which accumulates between the times of removal from the premises. The fitness of such box, bin, or barrel shall be passed upon by the department of public health. The manure shall be removed and disposed of in a sanitary manner.
chunk_id: 20069
record_id: 1089
page_number: 1

