1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
August 29, 2023

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, August 29, 2023 at 6:30
p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett,
Claudia G. Puckette, and Nathan A. Simpson.

Others present: Carlton Duck; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry
McGhee, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

DISCUSSION:

Mr. Simpson requested Council’s input regarding the installation of automatic cameras in work
zones and school zones.  After much discussion, Council provided consensus for the Town
Manager to review options for future considerations and options for the Town to keep the funds
from the tickets issued.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to approve the out-of-
town water connection for 3909 Richmond Highway.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried 6-0.

Mr. McGhee spoke on behalf of Mr. Nathan Harbin regarding a presentation on exterior
hardscape and landscape plans for the train depot.  Mr. Harbin was unable to attend tonight.  Mr.
Harbin’s proposal is for $5,700 for detailed plans to include placement of benches, tables, trash
cans, bike racks and low-profile plants.  The work would begin after the completion of the
exterior train depot renovations.

On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mr. Simpson, Council voted to release $5,700 for
Nathan Harbin to provide the scope of work outlined for the exterior hardscaping and
landscaping plans for the train depot.
Roll Call Vote:  Allen – yes, Boyce – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes, Simpson – yes, Spiggle
– yes. Motion carried 6-0.

Additionally, Mr. Simpson requested Council consider forming a short-lived (3 month) advisory
committee to come up with ideas for what to do with the train depot.  Council by consensus
agreed to bring back a name of someone at the next Workshop meeting.

COUNCIL COMMENTS:
Puckette – none
Simpson – none
Garrett – none
Boyce – none
Allen – none

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
August 29, 2023

Ms. Spiggle has had more than one person ask her why the council meetings are not accessible
through Facebook Live or YouTube.  Those asking do not have cable TV.  Reverend Duck put
together several options for the Town’s consideration.  He suggests allowing the Town to get
their website launched and proceed with posting the video after the completion of the new
website.  Reverend Duck also suggested not placing the workshop meeting online.  Allow the
workshop meeting to be for development.  The regular meeting would be what is projected to the
community.

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS:

Finance and Planning/ARPA – None

Physical Development Committee - None

STAFF REPORTS:

Kim Ray, Treasurer provided the July 2023 financial report and an update on ARPA projects and
funding.  In other financial matters she reported real estate and personal property taxes were
mailed on August 15, 2023.  The staff is collaborating with the consultant regarding the internal
audit.

[Mr. Simpson left the meeting at 7:30 p.m.]

Mr. Elder, Facilities Director requested Council consider purchasing a different Cat model
backhoe for $154,157 instead of the model presented at the August 14, 2023 meeting for
$121,044.  Mr. Elder explained he later learned the lesser amount model did not meet the
specifications.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to purchase the Cat
Model Backhoe for $154,157 instead of $121,044.
Roll Call Vote:  Allen – yes, Boyce – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes, Spiggle – yes. Motion
carried 5-0.

Mr. Elder also reported the contractor for the Smart Scale project on Old Courthouse Road has
started moving the waterline.  The contractor will be installing the streetlights and pavers, etc. for
the downtown revitalization project soon.  Lastly, smoke testing will begin on September 5,
2023.

Mr. McGhee also reported on the following items:

  The Original Italian Pizza (OIP) is planning to open in several weeks.  The owner of the

Triangle Plaza is not selling the property.

  The new town website is scheduled to be released on September 8, 2023.
  The Sheriff is planning to attend the September 11, 2023 meeting.
  The train depot renovations are slow but ending soon.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
August 29, 2023

  Dr. Jeff Garrett and Mr. McGhee met with the Central Virginia Family Practice

associates.

  The Regional State Manager for GFL stopped by for a visit recently and Mr. McGhee

shared the over two hundred stops missed by GFL during the last week.

  The brownfield discussions with the Central Virginia Planning District Commission and

their consultant should start next month.

  The Request for Proposals for a Town Water Source Study has been released.  The due

date is Thursday, September 28, 2023 at 2:00 p.m.

  The loan closure has occurred for the Church Street Waterline project.

Council members inquired about the date for the retreat.  Mr. Boyce cited he would not be
available after September 28th.  Mr. McGhee will schedule the event prior to September 28th.

ADJOURNMENT:

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn at 7:55 p.m.
All council members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

