1  Appomattox Town Council
Workshop Council Meeting
November 28, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, November 28, 2017 at
6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Mary Lou Spiggle, Steven T.
Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Members absent:  M. Erin Finch.

Others present:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Josh Davis, Times Virginian Newspaper; Emily
Wheeler, Kat Ferguson, Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and
Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed everyone.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Public Appearances:
Emily Wheeler – Appomattox Free Pantry Project, appeared before Council to request public
space, specifically at the Appomattox Children’s Park (Kiddie Park) to place a box on a 6x6 post
where individuals could place non-perishable food or hygiene items.  Mrs. Wheeler advised that
the Town Park has a lot of foot traffic and one of the goals of their project is to destigmatize the
need for food or other non-perishable items.  Home Depot has donated some of the money for
materials, flowers and mulch and a team of volunteers, artists and woodworkers will make the
pantry box.

Mrs. Wheeler explained there are similar projects in Lynchburg at the Daily Bread and the
Hutchinson school.  She further explained that the volunteers will gladly check on the box
weekly.

The Appomattox Town Council provided consensus to allow placement of the Little Food Pantry
project at the Appomattox Community Park (Kiddie Park).

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey stated he believes the Little Food Pantry project is a great idea.  He also reminded
everyone of the Downtown Christmas event on December 2, 2017 with the Whoville theme.

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for November 28, 2017 as presented.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

2  Appomattox Town Council
Workshop Council Meeting
November 28, 2017

New Business:

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to adopt the Fats, Oil and
Grease Program for the Town of Appomattox Public Works Department.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to award the Town Office
Roofing and Alley Replacement project to the lowest bidder, Woodall and Lang for a cost of
$26,810.00.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to cancel the December 26,
2017 Council Workshop meeting.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Staff Reports:

Mrs. Ray, Treasurer reported on the following items:

-  Brown, Edwards, Co, LLP would begin the FY 2017 Annual financial audit on

November 29, 2017.

-  An update on the financial software is still scheduled for December 2017.
-  Past Due Personal Property tax notices have been sent to all delinquent accounts.

Mrs. Casto – no report

Mr. Shanaberger, Town Manager reported on the following items:

-  The Town received four (4) RFP’s from qualified Architectural/Engineering firms for a
Historic Structure Report for the former Norfolk and Western Train Depot.  A scope of
work is anticipated for completion in January 2018.

-  He attended a meeting with the Department of Housing and Community Development on
November 27, 2017 to discuss the Downtown Revitalization Grant application submitted
earlier this year.  The applicant pool was extremely competitive however, DHCD
provided several suggestions for the next application should the Town desire to submit
again.

-  He has a meeting scheduled with the Virginia Economic Development Partnership on

December 12, 2017 in Richmond, Virginia.

Council Concerns:

Mr. Conner stated the Town needs to do a little planning on these buildings to maintain them for
the next 25 years.

Ms. Spiggle stated “Go Raiders” as the Football team heads in to the state finals.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Workshop Council Meeting
November 28, 2017

Mayor Harvey extended a thank you for all staff members.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adjourned at 6:55
p.m. All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

