# WORKSHOP MEETING – June 25, 2002

Page 1 of 3


A workshop meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Tuesday, June 25,
2002 at 7:00 PM with Mayor Spiggle presiding, .

Those members present were: W. H. Carson, C. Lewis McDearmon, Norman Mayberry,
Joyce Bennett, Steve Lawson, and Marvin Mitchell.

Others present were: William Phillips, Town Attorney, Lisa Knott, Times Virginian,
Douglas Steppe, Bif Gilliam, John L. Wilson, Rob Harrington, Carl Stanley, WSET, Ron
Brown, Lynchburg News, David Garrett, Jr., Town Manager, Roxanne Paulette, Deputy
Clerk, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The Workshop opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr, Lawson, Council approved the Workshop
Agenda with the following additions: 9. Adoption of the 2002/2003 Budget, 10.
Approval of the use of Abbitt Park and waive fees, 11. Request for Closed Session —
Possible Litigation, 12. Consideration of an RFP for a Water Study, 13. Discussion of
amending the Town Code regarding drilling of wells within the Town Limits, and all
those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mrs. Bennett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to purchase
an HL 1440 Laser Printer for the Chamber of Commerce at a cost of $450.00 and all
those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Council took no action on the C. T. Moses, Jr., Memorial Highway or the two way stop
sign at Main Street until further information can be obtained.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to withdraw from
the health care plan under the Appomattox County School Board and County of
Appomattox effective June 1, 2002, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to accept the
Blue Care 200 Healthcare Plan from Trigon retroactive to June 1, 2002 and expiring May
31, 2003, to pay the employee share only of the plan, with the employee bearing 100%
of the dependent costs.

Carson-aye Bennett-aye Mitchell-aye McDearmon-aye Mayberry —aye Lawson-aye
Motion carried.

At this time during the meeting, Barbara Williams, Clerk of the Circuit Court came to
Council to administer the oath of office to the Council members and the Mayor.