1  Regular Council Meeting
Monday, August 12, 2013

The Appomattox Town Council held a regular council meeting on Monday, August 12, 2013 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle,
N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner, Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Katrina Koetring, Carlton Duck, Stephanie James, Bryan David, Lucy Harvey, Benny
Harvey, Rev. Russell Cheatham, Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; Bill Gillespie, Interim Town
Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed all guests and visitors.

Rev. Russell Cheatham, Memorial United Methodist Church delivered the invocation.

Rev. Russell Cheatham, Memorial United Methodist Church led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Scheduled Public Appearances –
Bryan David, Executive Director, Region 2000 Economic Development Partnership Economic
Development Council appeared before Council to discuss incentives.  Incentives alone will not
attract businesses.  You will need water/sewer infrastructure, a work force, etc. – these things are
essential in attracting businesses.  Without business incentives you are unilaterally disarming
yourself.   The process consists of him receiving an inquiry, being notified of a site visit,
executing a non-disclosure agreement, submitting a final plan and a public announcement would
follow.  This could go on for one month to 4 years.

Mr. David gave a specific type of protocol analogy for a business so council could see how the
process would work.  He also spoke of grant opportunities.

Mayor’s Comments –
Mayor Harvey welcomed everyone.

Consent Agenda
On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to approve the
consent agenda of August 12, 2013 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

Unfinished Business – none

New Business –

On a motion by Councilmember Conner, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted to
amend in its entirety the Code of the Town of Appomattox, Chapter 195, entitled Zoning and
selective changes to the comprehensive Zoning Map, as presented by the Appomattox Town
Planning Commission.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2  Regular Council Meeting
Monday, August 12, 2013

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Puckette, Council
voted to award the Water and Sewer Line Construction project at the end of North Avenue for a
proposed subdivision to Counts and Dobyns (Contractor) and authorize the Mayor to enter into
an agreement for an amount of $69,369 with a 10% contingency, specifically $33,110.00 from
undesignated water fund balance and $36,286 from undesignated sewer fund balance.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Spiggle, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to award the Water and Sewer Line Construction project at the end of North Avenue for a
proposed subdivision to Ferguson Enterprises (materials) for $44,192.55 and $5,000.00 for 57
Stone from Boxley, specifically $28,792.45 from undesignated water fund balance and
$20,400.09 from undesignated sewer fund balance.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted
to authorize the Mayor to execute the Agreement to Provide Law Enforcement Services with
Appomattox County.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Staff Reports –
Town Manager – none

Citizen Comments:
None

Council Concerns:
None

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council voted
to adjourn at 8:07 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette , MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

