1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 8, 2016

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, February 8, 2016 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Steven T.
Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent:  M. Erin Finch

Others present:  Daniel Puckette, Times Virginian; Carlton Duck and Brian Moore, Alive Media
TV; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; and C. William Gillespie, Jr., Town Manager, and Roxanne
Casto, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed all the visitors.

Rev. Brian Moore gave the invocation and led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey advised that he and Mr. Gillespie attended the Appomattox County Board of
Supervisor’s Retreat on Saturday, January 30, 2016 to speak to items they can work on jointly.
He stated he feels the Board of Supervisors and Town Council will move forward attracting
businesses.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for February 8, 2016 as presented.
Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Finch – absent.
Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted on the following
appointments to the Town’s Economic Development Authority:

Michael Goin – will fill the unexpired term of Lisa Pannell – term expiring 12/31/2017,
Daniel Richardson – term expiring 12/31/2019,
Bob Goode – reappointment, term expiring 12/31/2019.

Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Finch – absent.
Motion carried 5-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 8, 2016

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adopt a resolution
amending the FY 2016 Operating Budget for the General Fund:

1.  Consideration to adopt a resolution amending the FY 2016 Operating Budget for the General Fund
for FY 2015-2016 for the carry forward of funding of incomplete projects from FY 2015 and new projects
approved in December 2015, and January 2016.

WHEREAS, Section15.2-2507, Code of Virginia, allows that a governing body may
budget from time to time

amend the

2.  NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby amend the
FY 2016 Operating Budget for the General Fund for FY 2015-2016 for the carry forward of funding for
incomplete projects from FY 2015 and new projects approved in December 2015, and January 2016.

General Fund Expenditures
Council
    (Master Plan)
Donations and Contributions
    (sign for football team $3,000)

Property Maintenance & Construction
    (Kiddie Park Phase 1 - $79,372, depot dormers $29,855)

Net Increase in Budget

General Fund Revenues

Use of Undesignated Reserve
Net Increase in Budget

$   19,183

                  3,000

    109,227
$ 131,410

 $ 131,410
$  131,410

SECTION XIII:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the Fiscal Year 2016
budget amendments are hereby adopted, and the monies necessary to fund it are hereby appropriated and
shall be certified by the Clerk of Council and maintained as an archive document with the official minutes
of the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia.
Amended this 8th day of February 2016.
Attest:

Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk

Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Finch – absent.
Motion carried 5-0.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 8, 2016

Commendation Reports/Recommendations:
On a recommendation of the Finance and Planning Committee and the Physical Development
Committee, Council voted to have a work session prior to each Regular Council meeting and a
workshop on the fourth Tuesday of each month at 7:30 p.m., immediately following the Town
EDA meeting, effective March 1, 2016.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a recommendation of the Finance and Planning Committee and the Physical Development
Committee, Council voted to deny the budget request of The Healing Place for the FY 2017
Budget contribution.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Gillespie reported (with humor) that the Public Works Department did a “bang up” job with
snow removal in the recent storm.  Mr. Elder’s entrepreneurial approach to snow removal is most
helpful to the Town.  The department ran for 24 hours – finishing up on Sunday.

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Council Concerns:
Mr. Conner expressed concerns that residents are leaving their roll out carts near the road and
sidewalks days after trash collection.  Mr. Gillespie said the Town could put out a notice and
police the cans.

Mr. Conner stated that the money needs to be spent on the depot and sidewalk replacement.  Mr.
Gillespie stated that the work should start on the sidewalks in mid-March.

Mayor Harvey commented on the phone calls he had received regarding the chained dogs on Lee
Grant Avenue.  Assistance was provided to the animals via the property owners.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Council Member Garrett, seconded by Council Member Spiggle, Council voted
to convene in Closed Session pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950,
as amended, for the purpose of discussion of prospective candidates for employment, specifically
being applicants for the position of Town Manager.

Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Finch – absent.
Motion carried 5-0.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Spiggle made the following motion:

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 8, 2016

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLOVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Finch – absent.
Motion carried 5-0.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 8:50 p.m.
Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Finch – absent.
Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

