ref: reel_02_0281
date: 1953-05-18
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council met in the Mayor's Office on May 18, with Mayor G. B. Buchanan presiding. The following members were present: Chas. F. James, J. T. Almond, C. T. Moses, Jr., Mrs. C. H. Robinson and Grover Smith.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

The Committee appointed by the Mayor at the April meeting made a report on the progress made in connection with securing the right-of-way for a 30 foot street on Lee-Grand Avenue, from Church Street at Dr. Christian’s corner to the branch at Mrs. L. E. Smith’s property. Also from the Ice Plant to Wooten’s Milling Company, thence to Church Street over Miss Alice Harwood’s property.

A motion was made by Chas. F. James seconded by J. T. Almond that the Town of Appomattox make Miss Alice Harwood an offer of $500.00 for a 30 foot right-of-way from Wooten Milling Company over her property to Church Street, if deemed by the Council it is necessary for public use. Motion carried.

A motion was made by J. T. Almond seconded by C. T. Moses, Jr. to possess this land for a Public Street from Miss Alice Harwood. Voting for the motion were: J. T. Almond, C. T. Moses, Jr. Against the motion: Chas. F. James, Mrs. C. H. Robinson and Grover Smith.

A building permit was approved for E. O. Johnson to build a frame house on Lucy Street, the approximately cost to be $4,000.00.

It was decided that the Summer recreation program be put on the shelf as the Council does not feel that they are able to participate in the program this year.

A motion was made by Grover Smith seconded by Chas. F. James that we secure a portrait of the late J. W. Cawthorn for the Mayor’s Office. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Chas. F. James, seconded by Grover Smith that the Local Softball League play ball at the Appomattox Ball Park free except that they are to pay for the lights and any damage to the property. Motion carried.

There being no further business the meeting adjourned to meet again on the regular meeting date of June 15, 1953.
chunk_id: 19765
record_id: 785
page_number: 1

