1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 11, 2021

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, January 11, 2021 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Richard Conner, presiding.

Council members present – Aaron Tilton, Nathan A. Simpson (phone), Mary Lou Spiggle,
Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette (phone) and James J. Boyce.

Staff members present – Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Kim Ray, Treasurer; and Roxanne
W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Others present – Carlton Duck and Michelle Murch.

The meeting was also broadcast Live on the Town of Appomattox Facebook page and public
phone participation through FreeConferenceCall.com was available.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

Rev. Carlton Duck, Pastor of the Gethsemane Baptist Church led the prayer and the Pledge of
Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Conner welcomed everyone in attendance and stated the community continues to thrive
and heal during the COVID pandemic.

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
There were no changes to the agenda for Monday, January 11, 2021.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
None

Council Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizens Comment Period:
None

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 11, 2021

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger provided the following updates:

➢  Church Street Waterline Replacement project and grant applications
➢  Appomattox Downtown Revitalization project
➢  July 3, 2021 Fireworks Display
➢  Town Charter amendment heading to the Virginia General Assembly session
➢  The Council Retreat date will be set in several months due to the COVID-19 concerns

and awaiting the Town’s Financial Analysis project.

Council Comments:
Mrs. Puckette – none

Mr. Simpson – none

Ms. Spiggle – none

Mr. T. Garrett – none

Mr. Tilton – none

Mr. Boyce inquired if any progress had been made on the parking problems along Church Street.
Mr. Shanaberger replied that some research has been conducted over the last several months and
with the proposed waterline replacement project on the horizon, the parking will be addressed.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at 7:50 p.m.  All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

