1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 26, 2021

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, January 26, 2021 at 6:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Conner, presiding.

Town Council present:  Aaron Tilton, Nathan A. Simpson, Timothy W. Garrett, James J. Boyce,
Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle (phone) and Claudia G. Puckette (phone).

Others present:  Sam Vance, Town Attorney; Michelle Murch, Carlton Duck, Jeff Elder,
Facilities Director; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Kim Ray, Treasurer; Frank Wright, Town
Attorney; and Roxanne Casto, Clerk

The meeting was also broadcast LIVE on the Town of Appomattox Facebook page and public
phone participation through FreeConferenceCall.com was available.

Mayor Conner called to order the Council Workshop meeting.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 8 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose
of consultation with legal counsel employed or retained by a public body regarding specific legal
matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel, specifically, to discuss an
application received for a water connection beyond the corporate limits of the Town of
Appomattox.  Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to permit the closure of the meeting
because an attorney representing the public body is in attendance or is consulted on the matter.
Vote:  Tilton – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Simpson – yes, Puckette – yes, Boyce – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

The meeting was reopened to the public.

Council Member Garrett made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Boyce and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 26, 2021

Vote:  Tilton – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Simpson – yes, Puckette – yes, Boyce – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

Action from Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Tilton, Council voted to direct the Town
Manager to draft a moratorium regarding new out of town utility connections and present to
Council for a vote as soon as possible.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Council Comments:
Mrs. Puckette - none

Ms. Spiggle – none

Mr. T. Garrett – none

Mr. Tilton – none

Mr. Simpson – none

Mr. Boyce – Thanked staff for all the hard work on the grant projects.

Staff Reports:
Mrs. Kim Ray, Treasurer provided the Treasurer’s Report for revenues and expenditures though
December 2020.

Ms. Casto, Clerk of Council – written report provided for January 2021.

Mr. Elder, Facilities Director – provided an update on the current sewer project for the Inflow &
Infiltration/Trickling Filter Plant.

Mr. Shanaberger provided an update on the grant award from the Department of Housing &
Community Development for $650,000 for the Church Street Waterline Replacement project and
the USDA/Rural Development application is expected to be submitted in the next several weeks.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at 7:35 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

