REGULAR MEETING - NOVEMBER 13, 1995

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on
Monday, November 13, 1995 with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: S. E. Lawson, Marvin Mitchell, R. L. Bass,
S. E. Carter, and W. H. Carson. Absent- R. Mitchell

Others present: Cindy Smith, Steve Conner, Shannon Powell, WSET
Jemon Haskins, WSET, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Steve Lawson, seconded by Mr. Mitchell,
Council voted to approve the Agenda with two additions to

New Business: 5. Approval of Drainage for Appomattox Drug Store,
6. Councilman's resignation and all of those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

Mr. Steve Lawson reported his Street Committee met regarding
a request from June Chenault for a curb and gutter and even
though there is a need, the Committee feels that it is not
one of the priority projects for the Town at this time.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted
to table the study on the Appomattox Utility System at this time,
and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council
voted to refer the request for a Handicap Parking Space on
Atwood Street to the Street Committee and all those present
voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council

voted to change the Personnel Policy with regards to the Holiday —
Schedule by deleting the Election Day and reinstating - the +
Columbus Day as an official Holiday for the Town of Appomattox
effective January 1, 1996, and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, secanded by Mr. Mitchell, Council
voted to approve the holidays as given by the Governor in his
official memo and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.
(see attached copy).

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council
voted to approve the drainage plan for the Appomattox Drug
Store and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle presented a request to appoint someone to the
Central Virginia Housing Consortium. No action was taken at
this time.

At this time the two employees came in from WSET.

Council took a five minute recess.

Councilman Carson made the motion to go into Executive Session

according to the following:
Pursuant to Virginia Code Section 2.1-344

B27

