86

Regular Meeting - October 8, 1990

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held
on Monday, October 8, 1990, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle
presiding.

Those members present: H. W. Conner, Marvin Mitchell,
R. L. Bass, W. H. Carson, and S. E. Carter. Absent-Hubbard

Others present: Ernest New, George Cheatham, Bernie Proctor,
Frances Abbitt, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The Meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council
approved the Agenda with the following additions to New
Business: 2. Fall Clean-Up, 3. Resolution for DMV,

4. Resolution for Dr. Clyde G. O'Brien, 5. Request from
Fire Department, 6. Ball Park, and all those present voting
aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council
voted to approve the Council minutes for the August 13th,
and September 10th meetings and all those present voting
aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Ernest New, representing the Appomattox Coin Laundry,
appeared before Council to request that they be allowed to
close down their Laundromat on Route 460 and open another
in the "Shoppes at Appomattox". They have problems with
parking and entering the hgihway at the present location.

Bernard C. Proctor, Consulting Engineer, appeared before
Council to discuss the bids for the Re-Hab Project.
H. Hamner Gay is the lowest bidder.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council
voted to award the bid to H. Hamner Gay for $51,000.00
with 60 days as the proposed completion time.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Conner-aye Mitchell-aye Carson-aye
Motion carried.

The Park Service project is at a stand still due to several
property owners refusing to discuss the granting of easements.

Council discussed the letter they have received. from the
Division of Motor Vehicles concerning the closing of the local
drivers examination station and car licensing offices.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council
voted to approve the August and September, Financial Statements
and all those presht voting aye. Motion carried.

- ”
—

