ref: reel_02_0230
date: 1949-08-01
content: Be it ordained that the speed limit of motor traffic on Route #460 from the eastern corporate limits of the town of Appomattox to the intersection of Church Street shall not exceed 25 miles per hour, from Church Street west of Carver High School shall not exceed 15 miles per hour and from that point west to corporate limits shall not exceed 25 miles per hour, effective on and after date of publication. 

Mr. A. R. Harwood's letter pertaining to special rates and agreements he had with certain specified water users. On a motion by Mr. C. S. Jenkins and seconded by C. T. Mose, Jr., that the town allow and practice the same special rates and agreements referred to in above mentioned letter. Carried. 

The matter of Mr. E. G. Woodard's two meter use discussed. Referred to Town Manager to ascertain Mr. Harwood's arrangement with Mr. Woodard. 

The matter of the Drug Store corner parking deferred until the highway department resurfaces the (main) street. 

The matter of a street light on the street on which Dr. D. A. Christian, III lives turned over to the street committee for investigation. 

Letter from Casco Corporation pertaining to contract and rate of rent per month to be charged them for use of building as their local Ice Plant. On motion by J. C. Caldwell and seconded by G. S. Jenkins that a contract for a period of one year beginning August 1, 1949 at the rate of $12.50 per month be required and accepted of them. Carried. 

The matter of disagreeable presence and odor of the water running under the Herman Old House by a motion duly carried referred to the street committee to make recommendation and report same at the next meeting. 

Permits for Mr. F. L. Murphy and Mr. E. O. Johnson building and improvements approved. 

The matter of additional fire hose discussed further and by a motion duly carried was referred to the committee to investigate need of additional hose and get quotation on same. 

The water committee was requested to investigate the need for suction pump to be used by the water department. 

Mr. Cawthorn brought up the matter of necessity and use of the Manager's personal car in performing his duties for the Town and compensation for same. On a motion by
chunk_id: 19714
record_id: 734
page_number: 1

