ref: reel_03_0875
date: 1984-10-01
content: Carter-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Webb-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council accepted the Financial Statement for August 1984, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council voted to rescind the action taken at the September meeting regarding the location of a Street light at the Goin/Pool property and have it placed instead on the existing pole.

Carter-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Webb-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. S. E. Carter, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council voted to deny the request for a Street Light at the Concession Stand at Bragg Stadium and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Bass made a motion to accept the Plan as presented by the National Park Service and reminds Council there are no time limits for Construction, seconded by Mr. Webb, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to accept the Audit Report for the Town of Appomattox for 1983, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

The Health problem at the house on Patricia Anne Lane was referred to the next meeting for further study.

Mayor Spiggle reported on the Virginia Municipal League Conference attended by himself and W. R. Britton, Jr.

On a motion by Mr. Naele, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted in accordance with Section 2.1-344 to go into Executive Session to discuss personnel and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council reconvened into regular session.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to pay the difference between the V.S.R.S. and the monies received from the County of Appomattox on W. R. Britton Salary effective January 1, 1985.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Webb-aye Motion carried.

There being no further business to come before Council, the meeting adjourned at 8:50 P.M.

R. C. Spiggle
MAYOR
B. H. Mullins
CLERK
chunk_id: 20891
record_id: 1911
page_number: 1

