1  Appomattox Town Council

Special Call Meeting
December 22, 2009

At the Special Call Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on December 22, 2009 at
5:00 pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street,
Appomattox, Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council
members Bryan J. Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky”
Williams and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.  Absent:  Karl E. Carter.   Also in attendance were
Chad Millner, Stephanie James, Reed Johnson, Cliff Harvey, June & Bill Goodrich, Mary Lou
Spiggle, Mr. Van Opstal, Marshall Goin, Dewitt Goin, Patrick Schroder, Will Simmons, Barbara
Shelton, Teresa Murphy, BRR, Keith Morris, Wal-Mart, Tom Kline, Troutman & Saunders,
George Joyner, Wal-Mart, Frank A. Wright, Jr., Town Attorney, Bart S. Van Nieuwenhuise,
Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Mayor Harvey cited the purpose of the meeting as discussion with Wal-Mart representatives
regarding the building design.

Mayor Harvey introduced Teresa Murphy, Architect with BRR; Keith Morris, Public Relations
with Wal-Mart; Tom Kline, Attorney with Troutman & Saunders and George Joyner, Area
Market Manager with Wal-Mart.

Mayor Harvey thanked everyone for coming to the meeting to discuss the exterior building
design.

Councilwoman Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs opened the discussion by explaining that she
contacted the Town Manager when she learned that the original exterior plans that called for
columns and a vestibule had been deleted or altered.  Those original plans were created and
drawn by Wal-Mart and presented to Council.  Wal-Mart explained from the beginning that
would be the store Appomattox would be getting.  Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs also explained that she
understood that additional plans had been submitted and they really haven’t been.

Councilmember Mayberry referred to Kelly Hobbs who was also involved originally with the
project in Appomattox.

Councilmember Williams noted that in the small/fine print on the original drawings:
“REPRESENTATION ONLY NOT FOR CONSTRUCTION” “BUILDING IMAGES SHOWN ARE A
REPRESENTATION OF THE DESIGN INTENT AND MAY NOT REFLECT ANY SUBTLE VARIATIONS IN
COLOR.  MATERIAL OR CONSTRUCTION THAT MAY OCCUR DUE TO LOCAL MARTERIAL
DIFFERENCES AND FINAL DESIGN DETAILING”

Councilwoman Jamerson-Scruggs had hoped that Wal-Mart would act in good faith regarding
the exterior building design.  However, cites that she realizes our lack of architectural ordinances
could present a problem for the Town.

Councilmember Baine stated that as with any project most are happy, some are not.  The Civil
War history and all kinds of small groups of people aren’t real excited including him but had
hoped that the building exterior being of brick and preserving the archeological site would be

2  Appomattox Town Council

Special Call Meeting
December 22, 2009

some consolation to some.  But now he feels like a small bill of goods have been sold to them
and he really doesn’t appreciate it.

Tom Kline, Attorney, Troutman & Saunders – Responded to the concerns and what has
transpired ---While the building was being permitted, closed on and construction about to begin,
Wal-Mart was going through a review of their architectural design.  Wal-Mart recognizes there
was a lapse in communication between themselves and the Town.  Appomattox is unique in that
the County does building inspection and the Town does Zoning and Site Plan review.  A Wal-
Mart team member contacted the County and not the Town.  The team recognized the
communication error or lapse.  As soon as that happened Teresa Murphy met with Bart.  We
understand the perception.  What Wal-Mart has done is changed the brick exterior to a split face
block.  There has only been a change in material.

Wal-Mart is offering a coloring rendition close to brick, columns ¾ of the building high (not to
the top of the building) and using Atlas Brick on the columns.

Mr. Mayberry asked about have the sides bricked on the smooth block.  Ms. Murphy responded
that that would not be possible because it is cost prohibitive.

Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs asked why the columns couldn’t be higher than the building.  Ms.
Murphy responded that there have been some water-tightness issues and the lower columns
adhere more to the architectural look of the new buildings.

Mr. Baine asked how many of the new buildings have vestibules.  Ms. Murphy responded not
many.

Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs asked what types of material were used in historical site for a 99,000 sq.
ft. Supercenter.  Mr. Klein and Ms. Murphy responded that it is usually mixed material.

Mr. Klein asked what could Wal-Mart do to bring it closer to the original design?
Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs said the original design makes a statement and the ¾ high columns does
not make a statement.

Mr. Baine indicated that the columns look like bricked up doorways.

Mr. Kline indicated there is no functionality of the columns.  Wal-Mart is trying to bring down
the features so they are not so massive.

Mr. Mayberry said it looks like you could give back more than you are giving.

Mr. Klein stated that they have heard council’s concerns and we will take them back to
corporate.

Mayor Harvey stated that the renditions look like an afterthought.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Special Call Meeting
December 22, 2009

Mr. Williams stated that in the original design the entrance sign in the below the roof line and the
columns are above the roof line and in the proposal the entrance is above the roof line and the
columns are ¾ the height of the wall.  The loading/receiving docks have a wall that blocks the
view.  Will that wall be there to block the view?  Ms. Murphy indicated that the wall will be
placed as shown in the original design.

Mr. Mayberry asked as to the timeframe of the next design.  Mr. Morris responded as soon as
possible.  Having been able to hear the concerns first hand has been helpful.

Again, Mayor Harvey thanked everyone for coming.

Mr. Klein recognizing the urgency of the project will try to provide revisions if approved to
council members as soon as possible.

Mr. Baine asked if the archeological site marker has been changed or moved?  Mr. Klein
responded that he would check with the civil engineer.  If there has been a modified drawing – it
would have been submitted to the town.

Mr. Kline reminded Council of the unique situation here in Appomattox with the County
handling Building Inspections and the Town handling Zoning and Site Plan approval.  From
Wal-Mart’s perspective it was an honest miscommunication.

Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs asked about the grave site markers and the preservation of the graves.
Mr. Kline again said he would speak with the Civil Engineer tomorrow.  Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise
advised Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs that one grave was relocated and the other wasn’t found.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Williams, Council
voted to adjourn at 5:50 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Town Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

