1  Regular Meeting – February 11, 2008

The Appomattox Town Council met on Monday, February 11, 2008 at 7:30 p.m. at the
Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Wilson,
presiding.

Members present:  Joyce B. Bennett, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John
T. “Plicky” Williams, Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.  Absent:  Steven E. Lawson.

Others present:  David T. Garrett, Jr., Frank A. Wright, Jr., Madga Liska, Dianne Miller, Chad
Millner, Stephanie James, Sarah Watson, Rev. Rusty Small, Norman Walton, Earl Dickerson,
Bif Johnson and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Wilson called the meeting to order.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Williams, Council
voted to adopt the consent agenda with the addition of Appearance #2 – Wind Damage (Mrs.
Bennett) and Appearance #3 – Consent Order Distribution (Mr. Garrett) and New Business #2 –
Consideration to lift the out of town water moratorium and discuss the out of town water policy
and delete New Business #1 – Closed Session – Pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 5 of the Code of
Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion concerning a prospective business or
industry or the expansion of an existing business or industry’s interest in locating or expanding
its facilities in the community, specifically being Business A.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

No public comments

Appearances –

Magda Liska – 731 Cove Mountain, Gladstone, Virginia (Appomattox County)
Ms. Liska appeared before the council to educate them on the Animal Welfare Action Group
(AWAG).

Ms. Dianne Miller – (AWAG)
Ms. Miller provided council members with statistical regarding spay/neuter clinics, licensing
fees and euthanizing in the County.

Council thanked Ms. Liska and Ms. Miller for their appearance and information.

Ms. Bennett – Briefed council on the wind damage that occurred on Sunday, February 10, 2008.
Mr. Garrett informed council of the 6 to 12 different fire in the county on Sunday, February 10,
2008.  Mr. Garrett thanked the Appomattox County Volunteer Fire Department, VDOT,
Appomattox County Landfill Personnel, and the Town Employees.  Ms. Bennett and Mr. Garrett
showed council a slideshow of pictures.

Mr. Garrett distributed the DEQ Consent Order to all council members.  The Utility Committee
has met once to discuss the consent order.

2  Regular Meeting – February 11, 2008

Unfinished Business
Norman Walton appeared before Council to present and discuss the independent review of water
budgets and reports prepared by Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. regarding information collected on the
Concord/460 waterline.

Mr. Walton reported that he had met with staff members and acquired information through face
to face discussion.  Mr. Walton met with David Garrett, Roxanne Paulette, Leslie Austin and
Earl Dickerson on Wednesday, January 30, 2008 and again on Friday, February 8, 2008.

There were no questions from Council.  Council thanked Mr. Walton for his work.

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Councilmember Williams,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of
Virginia, 1950, as amended for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel employed or
retained by the council regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by
such counsel, specifically being discussion of the legal authority of the council to require
production of assessment information from the Commissioner of Revenue.

VOTE:  Bennett – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.  Absent – Lawson.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed or considered by this council.

VOTE:  Bennett – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.  Absent – Lawson.

On a motion by Councilmember Bennett, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted
to set up a meeting of the Town Council governing body with the Appomattox County Board of
Supervisors to discuss the 460 Concord Waterline with a proposal or the intent of accepting the
Board of Supervisor’s offer of 75/25, provided it has been duly studied by the Finance and
Utility Committees.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

A lengthy discussion ensued regarding the independent study conducted by Mr. Walton.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council
voted to lift the out of town water moratorium and amend the out of town water policy.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

3  Regular Meeting – February 11, 2008

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs,
Council voted to adjourn at 9:45 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk

John L. Wilson, Mayor

