ref: reel_03_0724
date: 1980-05-12
content: Regular Meeting
May 12, 1980

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, May 12, 1980 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those present were: R. C. Hubbard, T. E. Conner, M. E. Gordon, S. E. Carter, R. L. Bass, and T. W. Lawson.

Also present were Councilman-Elect Ray Noble, W. R. Britton, Jr., Town Manager, Judy Volturo, and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard the Agenda was approved with the following additions: Parking Lot - Resolution for Highway Dept. to New Business.

A motion was offered by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Conner, to specify that a moratorium be placed on sewer connections out-of-town, due to the Town's inability to serve these customers and clarify the action taken at the Special Call held on April 28, 1980.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Gordon-aye Hubbard-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to approve the minutes of the Regular Meeting and two special Call's of Council, dated April 23, and April 28, 1980.

The Financial Statement was presented to Council.

Mr. Britton reported on the input of the E.P.A. on our Noise Control Ordinance. They have recommended that we go with 50 decibels instead of 45 because that is a low limit to go with. He also reported that Ted McCormick, C.V.P.D.C. is helping review and re-write the proposed ordinance for the Noise. It was the consensus of Council that we continue in the same way we are going now.

Mr. Britton reported that we have received notification from the F.H.A. that our loan has approved. We can now submit a full application for the $800,000.00 at 5% interest for 40 years. Council agreed that we should withhold a decision on this loan until after the meeting with the S.W.C.B. on May 16, 1980, and then the Council can decide on the course to take.

Mr. Britton reported that Mr. Kerr, our Attorney, has recommended that we do take the question of Sewerage to Bond Referendum and give the Town a better stand in case of Court Action against the Town.

It was the general consensus of Council that we want a 100% grant for revamping and refurbishing the Sewer System and/or the Regional Sewerage System or we don't want any Federal Funds at all. The Town will do the work themselves.

Mayor Spiggle read a letter from the S.W.C.B. on the testing requirements called for in the Special Order signed by the Town in 1975. A copy of the letter will be attached to these minutes. The matter was referred to the Committee of Mr. Bass, Mayor Spiggle, and Mr. Britton to study and make a recommendation to Council.
chunk_id: 20799
record_id: 1819
page_number: 1

