ref: reel_03_0667
date: 1982-08-16
content: Mr. Garland Ransom, requested Council’s permission to install a septic tank on the lot on Sunnydale Avenue and also requested the approval of the lot size in accordance with the Town Code.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to grant a Septic Tank permit for the lot on Sunnydale Avenue owned by Verna L. Moore, and that the lot size in accordance with Section 12-41, of the Town Code be approved as shown in a copy of the letter attached to these Minutes.

Carson-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to deny the request from Mr. Chilton to re-name Evergreen Avenue, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Carson made a statement to the effect that he is in agreement with Mr. Bass, because Town Council had granted permission for three apartments but the Zoning Board of Appeals overturned our decision.

Council voted to authorize Mr. Fitchett to send the Appomattox Cable TV Company, a letter stating that they are in non-compliance with the Franchise Ordinance, on the part of the Town, in accordance with the schedules. This letter is to be sent to Vico TV Station, v. Banck, and Appomattox Cable TV Company by registered mail.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to refund the County of Appomattox $3,563.85 which was the Bank Tax for 1981. See copy of attachment in Council file.

Carson-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye  Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to adopt the Letter Resolution in conjunction with the County of Appomattox, and the Town of Pamplin. (See copy in Council file dated August 1982).

Carson-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to deny the request for an adjustment on First Baptist Church’s water bill, and all members voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to deny the request from B. R. Simpson for an abatement on his water bill; and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Bass made the recommendation that the Town and the Contractor in this case, B. S. Nash Construction Company split the cost of the purchase of a new mule, but not before we get the insurance decisions.

Mr. Britton informed Council of the possibility of tying the Meadowlark Subdivision into Route 24. The National Park Service will pay for this construction if their funds hold out.
chunk_id: 20754
record_id: 1774
page_number: 1

