ref: reel_03_0641
date: 1981-11-09
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, November 9, 1981, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. L. Bass, W. H. Carson, T. E. Conner, Ray Noble, R. C. Hubbard, and T. W. Lawson.

Also present were: Mike Weiss, Bill Hunter, Vic Bosiger, Bill Sherrod, W. R. Britton, Jr., Judy Volturo, and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Lawson, the Agenda with one addition to New Business, 4, Resolution on Sewer Improvement Project, was approved by Council, and all members voting aye.

The minutes of the October 12, 1981 meeting were approved as submitted.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, the Financial Statement for October 1981, was approved by Council, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to table Item 2, Old Business, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Vic Bosiger, ViKas Communications, reported to Council that they have a signed contract with Bahakel Broadcasting to purchase the Cable System. He requested an extension of time.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to grant Farmers National Bank another 30 day extension to facilitate the sale of the system.

Bass-aye Carson-aye Conner-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Britton reported to Council that the Park Service agreement to extend and connect the waterline has basically been agreed upon and we are waiting for the contract.

Mr. Britton also reported Morris Avenue has been turned over to the Highway Department and Cawthorne Street has been improved as approved by Council.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carson, the Council voted to send one-half of the Virginia Water Project Grant back to them, with the stipulation that it be given to Pamplin City to up-grade their water system, and if they should not accept these funds, they will come back to the Town of Appomattox for their use.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council accepts the recommendation of the Viewers Committee as appointed by Town Council, and authorized Mr. Britton, to notify Mr. Lawson that all the adjacent property owners have to be notified, and proceed with a Public Hearing.

Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20730
record_id: 1750
page_number: 1

