192

REGULAR MEETING - JUNE 13, 1994

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held
on Monday, June 13, 1994 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle
presiding.

Those members present: W. H. Carson, S. E. Carter, R. L. Bass,
S. E. Lawson, H. W. Conner, and R. W. Mitchell.

Others present: Steve Conner, Barbara Williams, Clerk of
Circuit Court, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with the swearing in ceremony of the
Mayor and Town Councilmen by Barbara Williams for the two
year term beginning July lst.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted
to approve the Agenda with the following additions: 4. Water
line South Church Street, 5. Request from Steve Conner,

6. Contract with County for Police Services and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council
recommended that the request from Steve Conner be referred to
the Appomattox Planning Commission for their study and
recommendation and all those present voting aye. Motion.
carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council
voted to accept the recommendation of the Street Committee
that Cawthorne Street, Lucy Street, and Patricia Anne Lane
be worked on for maintenance by the Highway Department and
all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council
voted to accept the recommendation of the Street Committee
regarding handicapped parking at Methodist Church and not
place these signs due to the fact that parking spaces will
be needed during the week and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council
voted to add an addendum to the contract with H. Hamner
Gay & Company to run the 1200 feet of water line on Lee
Grant Avenue from its intersection with Church Street to
Lombardy Street at an approximate cost of $29,000.00 and
all those present voting aye. Motion carried.
