ref: reel_02_0242
date: 1950-03-20
content: Regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on March 20, 1950 with Mayor G. B. Buchanan presiding and the following members present: C. F. James, G. S. Jenkins, F. L. Murphy and G. T. Moses, Jr.

Mr. Shepherd and Mr. Smith of the Virginia Electric and Power Company were present to explain to the council some technical questions pertaining to the lighting system for the town and the erection of three additional street lights. On a motion by C. F. James seconded by G. T. Moses, Jr. and carried the three additional street lights were authorized as follows: one at or near the residence of Dr. David Christian, Ill, one on North Avenue and the third near the center of the long space of no light near the residence of Mr. John S. Grinels. Mins. of last meeting read and approved as read.

On a motion by C. F. James, seconded by G. T. Moses, Jr. and carried the use of soft copper piping in the Town's water service connections was authorized.

On a duly carried motion March 28, 1950 was the date set for a called meeting of the Town Council to meet with the Town Zoning Committee.

By a motion of C. F. James seconded by C. F. James and carried the proposal of the Steel & Tank Service Co. of Charlotte, N. C. for painting the words HISTORIC APPOMATTOX on two sides of the new water tank for the sum of $150.00 was accepted and approved.

On a motion duly carried the transfer of sufficient funds from the Sewer Fund to the Water Fund was authorized to take care of pending Water Fund obligations.

On a motion duly carried the recommendation of the Water Committee to run a four inch water main from the main on Route No. 460 at the Residence of Fred Robertson's along the undeveloped street to the residences of Mr. E. G. Johnson and at that point install a fire hydrant and extend residential services to the residences on the street desiring such service.

On a motion duly carried, the Town Manager was authorized to procure white and yellow traffic paint necessary street painting.

On a motion duly carried, the use of the Town Truck and men was authorized to collect any trash that is piled within the corporate limits by any person from this date through April 15, 1950 and dispose of same in our usual manner.

On a motion adjourned.

Signed: E. Carroll Smith Clerk
E. Carroll Smith
H. B. Buchanan Mayor
G. B. Buchanan
chunk_id: 19726
record_id: 746
page_number: 1

