# REGULAR MEETING – March 08, 2004

Page 1 of 3


A regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, Me March
8, 2004 at 7:30 p.m. with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present: N. H. Mayberry, M. H. Mitchell, C. L. McDearmon, Jr., W. H.
Carson, S, E. Lawson, Joyce B. Bennett.

Others present: David T. Garrett, Jr., Charles E, Garrett, Chuck Warner, Danny
Jobe, Nesbe Cable, Joe Buchanan, Wayne Phelps, Penny Taylor, Chad Denton,
Times Virginian, W. M. Phillips, Town Attorney and Roxanne Paulette, Clerk.
The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember
McDearmon, Council voted to approve the consent agenda. All members voting
aye. Motion carried. .

Danny Jobe of Nesbe Cable gave Council an. update on cable service and was

_ available for concerns and questions. The largest complaint at this time was in

reception and Danny indicated that the problem had been identified and would
soon be corrected.: a
Penny Taylor appeared before Council regarding the June 2004 Reenactment.
She informed Council of some changes for this year including light refreshment -
and dance on Friday night at the site on Rt. 613 (same as 2003). VDOT will be
providing entrances and the lighting and electricity have been secured.

Wayne Phelps appeared before Council to request support of the World War IT
Statue to be placed at the Courtyard Square. Mr. Phelps explained he was only
here asking for support and reassured Council he would not be back just because
they signed in support. A letter is all he wanted.

On a motion by Councilmember Carson, seconded by Councilmember Mitchell,
Council voted to table the request by Bill Burke for Abbitt Park until the March
23, 2004 Workshop Meeting. All members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, Chairman of the Utility Committee,
Council voted to purchase the Radio Read system and 95 water meters from

_ Ferguson Enterprises for $19,900. All members voting aye. Motion carried.

On-a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember |
Lawson, Council voted to support the World War IT statue at the Courtyard
Square. All members voting aye. Motion carried.

S35