# WORKSHOP MEETING – March 23, 2004

Page 1 of 2

BBto

oe: Workshop Meeting —.March 23,2004... 00. 21.

oA workshop. meeting ‘of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Tuesday,
March 23, 2004 at 7:00 p.m. with Mayor Spiggle, presiding: ©

Those present: M. H. Mitchell, N. H. Mayberry, C. L. McDearmon, Jr., Joyce
Bennett, W. H. Carson, S. E. Lawson.

Others present: David & Jillian Mitchel, Bill Burke, Larry Mobley, Chad Denton,
Times Virginian Newspaper, W. M. Phillips, Town Attorney, David T. Garrett, Jr.,
Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

On-a motion by Councilmember Lawson, Chairman of the Street & Property
Committee, Council voted to proceed with the stage and pad at the Abbitt
Memorial Park as presented and with the necessary brick foundation for the
stage and lighting to come at a later date. All members voting aye. Motion
carried.

David & Jillian Mitchel of Longacre Bed and Breakfast were present to. inform
Council of their recent purchase of the Appomattox True Value Hardware
Building on Church Street.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, ‘seconded by Councilmember
McDearmon, Council voted to pay Y2 of the cost of the new color brochures for
the Visitor's Information Center at a cost of $5922.50. All members voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry,
Council voted adoption of the 2000 Regional Commission Resolution requesting
General Assembly Action on FY 2005/2007 Biennium Budget.

WHEREAS, the official end to General Assembly 2004 session culminated without
the adoption of a budget for the next biennium and,

WHEREAS, the local governments of Central Virginia are now faced with the
ominous task of preparing a local budget for the upcoming fiscal year without
the benefit of knowing the funding levels that will be received from the
Commonwealth and,

WHEREAS, the inability of the General Assembly to adopt a realistic budget will.
force the localities of Central Virginia to take unprecedented steps regarding
services that are funded in part by the Commonwealth and,