ref: reel_03_0850
date: 1983-11-14
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, November 14, 1983, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, R. L. Bass, T.W. Lawson, S. E. Carter, and Ray Noble.

Others present: Cindy Ranson, Dot Davidson, Jane & Micheal Andruskys, Frances Paulette, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, the Agenda with the following additions: Old Business, No. 4 Fire Academy; and New Business, No. 4. County's request for use of Back Room, was approved and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council approved the minutes of the October 18, 1983 meeting and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

Mrs. Dot Davidson and Ms. Cindy Ranson, appeared before Council to ask that the Town, once again, Co-Sponsor the 1984 festival.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, the Town agreed to Co-Sponsor the 1984 Railroad Festival with the Festival Board and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

Mayor Spiggle read to Council the letter from Micheal Andruskys requesting permission to build a Duplex on Atwood Street.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to grant a conditional use permit to Mr. Andruskys to build a Duplex on Atwood Street.

Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Webb-aye Motion carried unanimously.

Council discussed the Financial Statement for October 1983.

Mr. Noble reported to Council on the meeting with the Board of Supervisors. It was general consensus of Town Council that they meet with the Board of Supervisors to further discuss the matter of Septage into our Sewer System.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to table Item 4, Old Business, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council voted to appoint Mr. Noble to the Sewerage Handling and Disposal Advisory Committee for a 2 year term, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20867
record_id: 1887
page_number: 1

