ref: reel_02_0254
date: 1950-12-18
content: A regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on December 18, 1950 with Mayor G. B. Buchanan presiding and the following members present, Chas. F. James, J. E. Jamerson, C. S. Jenkins, and J. C. Caldwell.

Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

The 1951 budget as prepared by the Finance Committee was read and on a motion by J. E. Jamerson, seconded by J. C. Caldwell and carried, was approved as read and prepared.

The Mayor informed the Council that the Jailer would not consider turning in the Fire Alarm but that there is a possibility of having this done through the Local State Police Station. On a motion by J. C. Caldwell seconded by Chas. F. James and carried the Mayor was authorized to proceed with the State Police Station procedure.

On a motion by J. E. Jamerson, seconded by C. S. Jenkins and carried painting the interior of the Manager’s office at the discretion of the Manager was authorized.

On a motion by C. S. Jenkins and seconded by J. C. Caldwell and carried the following Ordinance was adopted: Be it ordained by the Appomattox Town Council that all Trucking Companies maintaining an office or headquarters within the Corporate Limits shall pay a license fee of $10.00 per year per Motor Tractor and/or Truck.

On a motion by C. S. Jenkins seconded by Chas. F. James and carried the following ordinance was adopted: Be it ordained by the Appomattox Town Council that all wholesale and/or retail lumber dealers within the Corporate Limits shall pay an annual license fee of $5.00 on the first two thousand dollars sales and $0.50 cents per hundred on each additional $100.00 sales. Both the above ordinances effective after publication.

On a motion by J. C. Caldwell, seconded by J. E. Jamerson and carried the following street lights were authorized: One additional light on Main Street between the Hotel and the Intersection of Court Street, one light on the pole behind the County Jail, relocate one light and install one additional light on School Street toward the intersection of Church Street, one light in the E. C. Johnson development and two lights on the Appomattox High School Grounds to the rear of the buildings, but to be reimbursed as per agreement, by the County School Board for all installation tax and operation costs.

On a motion duly carried the Town Manager was authorized to work with the Town Attorney on the proper legal procedure of recording and collecting delinquent Town Taxes.

By a duly carried motion the payment of the basic cost of a telephone at the residence of the Town Policeman for official purposes only was authorized.

On a motion duly carried the Manager was authorized to submit specifications to the local Truck dealers and get prices on a new Street truck complete with new dump body and present same at the regular January 1951 meeting.

On a motion adjourned.

Signed G. B. Buchanan, Mayor
Signed E. Carroll Smith, Clerk
chunk_id: 19738
record_id: 758
page_number: 1

