1  Joint Meeting

Appomattox Town Council & Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
February 21, 2012

The Appomattox Town Council met jointly with the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
on Tuesday, February 21, 2012 at 5:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden
Street, Appomattox, Virginia.

Town of Appomattox – Present:  Paul D. Harvey, Mayor; Council Members:  Joyce B. Bennett,
Steven T. Conner, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle,
Timothy W. Garrett, C. William Gillespie, Jr., Town Manager; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer
and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of Council.

County of Appomattox – Present:  Board Members: Gary Tanner, Ronald C. Spiggle, W. H.
Craft, Samuel Carter, Jerry Small; Jeff Taylor, Johnnie Roark, Johnny G. Overstreet, County
Attorney; Aileen T. Ferguson, County Administrator; Vicky Phelps, Administrative Assistant.

Others:  Stephanie James, Claudia G. Puckette, Cliff Harvey, Chad Millner.

Mayor Harvey called the Appomattox Town Council to order.

Chairman Small called the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors to order.

Mayor Harvey welcomed the Board of Supervisors and all guests to the meeting and thanked
them for attending.

Items discussed:
Discussion of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Appomattox County Board of
Supervisors and the Appomattox Town Council regarding a Sewer Line Expansion.
Mr. Gillespie explained the components of the attached documents to the MOU.  The proposed
sewer expansion would raise the daily discharge limits of the SBR sewer system from 300,000
gpd to 600,000 gpd.  There is enough room located at the SBR site to expand the system.  Mr.
Gillespie also explained that the funding agencies he has spoken with would prefer to see a
regionally (town & county) combined efforts on this project.

Mr. Spiggle asked for clarification on the discharge from the SBR plant to the Chesapeake Bay.
Mr. Gillespie responded that all of that has been considered and the limit can be met without a
problem.

Mr. Tanner sited that the Police Tower Road area would provide for future growth.

Mr. Overstreet, County Attorney cited that he has only one except to the MOU for consideration
by the board and he would like time to massage the MOU before the board takes any action. Mr.
Overstreet stated that he agreed with the MOU in principle but not binding in any details.

Mr. Gillespie also stated that USDA would like to see the Town (County) come in with a full
project, meaning an economic development element.

2  Joint Meeting

Appomattox Town Council & Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
February 21, 2012

Mr. Gillespie said he would be meeting with USDA on March 5, 2012 to discuss the Preliminary
Engineering Report and Environmental Review.  In order to meet the Spring/Summer deadlines
for grant applications a decision would need to be made by both governmental agencies within
the next few months.

Update on the Route 460 Concord/Appomattox Waterline
There is approximately less than 1000 linear feet of line remaining to be installed, 13
connections to make and testing per the Health Department standards to conduct.  It is
anticipated that wrap up should occur within the next 30 – 45 days.  County notices will be
mailed to the 50 customers and packages will be mailed by the Town in May or June 2012.

On a motion by Chairman Craft, seconded by Mr. Tanner, the Board adjourned at 6:00 p.m.

On a motion by Councilmember Spiggle, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council voted to
adjourn the joint meeting between the Town and County at 6:00 p.m.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

