ref: reel_02_0627
date: 1972-10-16
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, October 16, 1972 at 7:30 with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Those present were: Mrs. Robinson, Burke Guill, Ivey Holland, and T. E. Conner.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

Mr. Griffin of the Central Virginia Planning District, appeared before the Council. He requested that the Town enter into a reciprocal agreement with the other Political entities within this Planning District. The reciprocal agreement would permit law enforcement officers from one Political jurisdiction to move freely into other Political jurisdictions within this Planning District without having to obtain permission to do so. It will also permit law enforcement officers to act as undercover agents within other political jurisdictions within this Planning District. This agreement involves only drug activities. Mr. Holland made the motion that the Town enter into this agreement and Burke Guill seconded. Motion carried.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Mr. Pack reported that the Town has an option on the lot adjacent to Well No. 8 lot. This lot has been approved by both the State Health Department and the geologist. After some discussion, Mr. Conner made the motion that instead of an option we buy the lot, Mrs. Robinson seconded. Motion carried.

Mr. Pack reported that by July of next year the Town will be using a landfill. He reported that he was checking into a new location for this landfill.

Mr. Slagle reported the Board of Supervisors had authorized him to purchase the materials for the radio communications equipment building and to bill same to them. It is anticipated that the school shop class in Masonry will provide the labor.

Conner reported the Appomattox Woman's Club have written a letter to the Mayor and Council to inquire as to the Town's plans for the Norfolk & Western Railway Depot if it is given to them.

Conner reported that at the committee meeting on October 13, it was decided to raise Mr. Harold Nash's salary to $8500 as of the next pay period. Conner made the motion and Guill seconded. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mrs. Robinson seconded by T. E. Conner the following resolution was passed:

WHEREAS the Town of Appomattox has subdivided a certain parcel of land for the purpose of a residential development which is plated as Promise Land Subdivision, and located within the County of Appomattox;
chunk_id: 20097
record_id: 1117
page_number: 1

