ref: reel_02_0518
date: 1930-12-31
content: OFFENSES - MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 12-31. Revised. - Noise Generally.

The creation and continuation of any loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises is hereby prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, make or contribute to creating any loud or disturbing noise of such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of any individual, or such noises as disturb the quiet and peace of any citizen. The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, annoying and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:

(a) Pets. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent, or long-continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person in the vicinity.

(b) Use of Vehicles. The use of any automobile motor-cycle or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded, or used or repaired in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary noises, particularly grating, grinding, rattling, riveting or other disturbing noises.

(c) No person, corporation or partnership shall operate any steam engine or combustion engine in the Town of Appomattox, Virginia, which can be heard by the adjacent land owner unless there be a muffler or noise arrester on said engine which has been approved by the Town Manager.

(d) Building operations. The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M., on weekdays, except in cases of urgent necessity on the interest of public safety, and then only with a permit from the Town manager.

Any person, corporation or partnership that is convicted of violating this ordinance shall be fined no less than $5.00 nor more than $500.00

Motion carried and is to be published twice in the Times-Virginian.

Mrs Robinson moved and Bass seconded that building permits be issued as follows:

Evans & Nash Const. Co. A shed on Patricia Anne Lane at an estimated cost of $2000.00
Mrs. B. G. Anderson Dwelling on Evergreen Ave. at an estimated cost of $19,000.00.
Lee-Grant Realty Co. An 8 apartment building on Evergreen Ave. at an estimated cost of $45,000.00

Motion carried
chunk_id: 19989
record_id: 1009
page_number: 1

