ref: reel_02_0630
date: 1972-11-17
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Friday, November 17, 1972, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H.B. Pack presiding. 

Members present were: Mrs. Robinson, Burke Guill, T.E. Conner, R.C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, and Ivey Holland.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and corrected with the addition of a 'Motion carried' which was left off from paragraph 15.

It was reported that a meeting of the Police & Health Committee was held on November 2, 1972 to consider trading the Town Police Car. After careful discussion, the Police Committee decided to recommend to the Council that the Town trade-in our Police car for the 1970 Chevrolet Police car formerly owned by the Sheriffs Department. A motion was made by Conner and seconded by Hubbard to trade the Town police car. Motion carried.

Burke Guill reported that the street light situation at the Carl Almond's has finally been settled.

Mr. Pack reported that well No. 6 has been test pumped by Mr. Slagle and Mr. Nash.

On a motion by R.C. Hubbard and seconded by Mrs. Robinson, the Town Council approved the subdivision surveyed and platted by Ralph P. Hines and known as the Promised Land Subdivision. The Council also authorized payment of Mr. Hines $950.00 fee.

Mr. Slagle reported that he had drawn up the plans and specifications for the radio communications building and had solicited quotes on the building material from two local suppliers. Mr. Slagle further reported that J.F. Sears & Co., Inc. received the order and has supplied the materials, and that the building is about half completed. The Board of Supervisors has also requested that the building be bricked according to Mr. Slagle.

Mr. Holland made the motion and Mr. Hubbard seconded that the New Vacation & Sick Leave Policy be adopted and made effective January 1, 1973. A copy is attached. Motion carried.

The question of the Landfill operation by July 1, 1973 is still in the planning and discussion stage.

Mr. Holland reported it was time to schedule a meeting of the Account and Finance Committee to study and propose a budget for 1973. The meeting will be held December 6, 1972.

Webb reported it was time to begin the planning for the Annual Banquet to be held in December.

Conner reported that the J.C.'s had been in contact with him concerning the Town's plans for the Railroad Depot.
chunk_id: 20100
record_id: 1120
page_number: 1

