1  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, July 28, 2009

At the Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on July 28, 2009 at 7:00 pm in
the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council members Bryan J.
Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky” Williams.  Absent
were Karl E. Carter and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.   Also in attendance were Chad Millner,
Nina Beasley, Barbara Shelton, Mary Lou Spiggle, Cliff Harvey, Joyce Bennett, Stephanie
James, Carlton Duck, Carla Moore, Town Treasurer; Bart S. Van Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager
and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

On a motion by Councilmember Williams, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council
voted to award the STAG grant engineering to WW Associates, Inc. for $52,500.00.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Council was presented with and discussed the Consent Order for the SBR facility received by the
Town on July 8, 2009.  The item will be placed on the August 8, 2009 Council Agenda for
consideration to authorize the Mayor to sign on the Town’s behalf.

The Town Manager presented information regarding the Visioning process.  It will be a
community based program.  Council gave consent to move forward with the program.

Standing Committee Reports
Finance Committee – none

Fire & Safety Committee – none

Ordinance Committee – none

Personnel Committee – Mr. Williams introduced Carla Moore, Town Treasurer.  He reported
that the Town held a nice cookout for the employees and it was well attended.  The Town has
also filled two other vacant positions at the Public Works Department.  The committee will be
setting a date for the next meeting.

Street & Property Committee – Mr. Baine reported that he will be calling a meeting in the next
week or two.

Utility Committee – On a recommendation by Mr. Mayberry, Chairman of the Utility
Committee, Council voted to approve the expenditure of $69,800.00 to Aqua-Aerobics, the
original equipment provider, for stainless steel in SBR #1 Components and Digester #1 and
approve the authorization to move forward with SBR #2 Components and Digester #2 if more
than 50% of the galvanized steel is corroded.
Vote:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye.  Absent:  Carter and
Jamerson-Scruggs.  Motion carried 4-0.

2  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, July 28, 2009

Mr. Fred Kruschwitz, Liberty Baptist Church appeared before Council to discuss a possible
transfer of land.  The parcels in consideration are a 9 acre tract adjacent to the Town Community
Park (Kiddie Park) and the Town Public Works Shop on Linden Street.  Council gave consent to
allow the Street & Property Committee to meet with members of Liberty Baptist Church to
discuss details.

Bart S. Van Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager gave the staff member reports (attached).

Council Concerns – Mr. Mayberry asked if the IDA pump station issues have been resolved.  Mr.
Van Nieuwenhuise reported that quotes have been received and they are being reviewed for
Procurement guidelines.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Williams, Council
voted to adjourn at 7:45 pm.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey,
Mayor

