# PUBLIC MEETING – July 22, 2003

Page 1 of 3

SOB.

: A eos and reconvene — ‘the Appomattox Town Council was held on Tuesday,

July 22, 2003 at 6:00 p.m. at the Municipal Building with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present: N. H. Mayberry, M. H. Mitchell, C. L. McDearmon, Joyce Bennett
and Steve Lawson. Absent — W. H. Carson. ,

Others present: John Aughenbaugh (Virginia Tech), Chad Miller (Virginia Tech), Chad
Denton (Times Virginian), Wayne Phelps, Charles Garrett, W. M. Phillips, Town
Attorney, Robert Wood, ITI (Edmunds and Williams), Earl Dickerson (Hurt & Proffitt),
Bif Johnson (Hurt & Proffitt), Patrick Yeatts and Bevin Alexander (Freeman, Dunn,

~ Alexander and Yeatts) and Roxanne Paulette, Deputy Clerk.

- Vote: Bennett — yes, McDearmon — yes, Mayberry — yes, Mitchell — yes, Lawson — yes, - -

The meeting was opened with a prayer. *

On a motion by N. H. Mayberry, seconded by M. H. Mitchell, Council voted to approve

‘the consent agenda, All-voting aye. Motion carried.

Town Council received a presentation by John Aughenbaugh and Chad Miller in regards
to a Performance Measurement and Benchmarking Study to be performed by Virginia
Tech for $3,500.00. .

Town Council also received a presentation by E. Wayne Phelps ‘on Lbchalf of the
Reenactment Committee for the Chamber of Commerte and requested consideration of a
$2,500.00 donation to the event to be held on September 13 & 14, 2003.

On a motion by M. H. Mitchell, seconded by S. E. Lawson, Council voted to convene in
Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711A.7 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as
amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel regarding specific legal
matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel.

Carson — absent.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to
the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully
exempted from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed
meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business

- matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard,

discussed, or considered by this council.

Vote: Bennett — yes, McDearmon — yes, Mayberry — yes, Mitchell — yes, Lawson — yes,
Carson — absent.