ref: reel_03_0046
date: 1975-07-14
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, July 14, 1975 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Pack presiding.

Members present were R. C. Hubbard, M. J. House, Jr., R. C. Spiggle, T. E. Conner, Burke Quill, and Mrs. Earle Robinson.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the regular meeting were read and approved as read.

Sheriff Gene Richardson and Mr. Martin Watts, Criminal Justice Analyst, Central Virginia Planning District Commission met with Council to discuss the Criminal Justice Training Center. Mr. Watts explained the proposed Training Center plans and the advantages to the Police Departments in the Central Virginia area. He requested that Council adopt a resolution endorsing the Virginia Criminal Justice Training Center Feasibility Report and also authorize the Mayor to execute the "Charter Agreement". Mr. Spiggle made the motion, seconded by Mr. House to adopt the following resolution:

See attached copy

Ayes 6 Nays 0  Motion carried.

Mr. Spiggle made a motion to authorize Mr. Pack to execute the "Charter Agreement" for the Central Virginia Criminal Justice Training Center on behalf of the Town of Appomattox, seconded by Mrs. Robinson. Motion carried.

Mr. Spiggle asked Mr. Slagle to bring Council up-to-date on the sewerage treatment project. Mr. Slagle reported he has been in contact with Don Prager, State Water Control Board, and found Mr. Prager was unable to give him any firm commitments.

Mr. Spiggle reported he has a copy of the laboratory analysis for the lagoon.

Mr. Quill reported construction has begun on Dogwood Street extended to the new High School.

Mr. Conner proposed that we write to the residents along West Lee Grant Avenue and request that they not park on the Street during the school term.

Mr. Slagle reported the new well is producing approximately 175 gallons per minute and that preliminary testing indicates that it is of good chemical quality. He also advised Council on the steps to be taken in connecting the well to our distribution system.
chunk_id: 20257
record_id: 1277
page_number: 1

