1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 9, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, January 9, 2017 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin Finch, Steven T. Conner and
Claudia G. Puckette.

Members absent:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.

Others present:  Carlton Duck & Brian Moore, Alive Media Services; Daniel Puckette, Times
Virginian Newspaper; Jeff Elder, Facilities Manager; Linda Lipscomb, Kelly Hitchcock, Noah
Harris, Clarence Monday, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Regular Council meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Brian Moore led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Kelly Hitchcock, Senior Planner with Region 2000 appeared before Council to provide an update
on the Downtown Revitalization Planning Grant as it is in its draft state.  Ms. Hitchcock will
reappear before Council at the February 13, 2017 to present the final copy of the Economic
Restructuring Plan.

On January 26, 2017 at 5:30 p.m. there will be an opportunity for residents, property owners and
the community to see the application.  The event will be held at the Appomattox Visitors Center
214 Main Street, Appomattox, Virginia.

The management team will be finalizing the document before the February 13, 2017 Council
meeting.  The grant application deadline is March 29, 2017.  Council thanked Kelly for the
update.

Mayor’s Comments:
None

Consent Agenda -
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to approve the consent
agenda of January 9, 2017 as presented.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner
– aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried.

Old Business –
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to appoint Linda Lipscomb
to the Appomattox Town Planning Commission effective immediately, with a term expiring
January 1, 2021 (4 years).  Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 9, 2017

New Business –
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adopt the 2017
Meeting Schedule of the Appomattox Town Council.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch
– aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried.

Standing Commission Reports - none

Citizen Comment Period – none

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Monday reported he is becoming familiar with the Town’s operations and staff.  He has a
tour of the Town planned with Mr. Elder for tomorrow.  He is looking forward to one on one
interaction with each council member.  He thanked Council for the opportunity to serve.

Council Concerns:
Mayor Harvey asked Council’s plan to hire an assistant Town Manager to work with Mr.
Monday.  Council agreed to allow Mr. Monday and Mr. Gillespie to develop the plan of hiring
an assistant.

Roxanne Casto, Clerk shared with Council a request from an itinerant merchant who would like
consideration of Council to reduce the Business License tax for an itinerant merchant who also
contributes to another form of tax, such as Meals Tax.  After much discussion, Council
concurred to leave the ordinance as is.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn the regular
council meeting at 7:45 p.m.   Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

