1  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and

Appomatox County Board of Supervisors
January 19, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council and Appomattox County Board of Supervisors held a Joint
meeting on January 19, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. at the American Civil War Museum – Museum of the
Confederacy Appomattox meeting room, located at 159 Horseshoe Road, Appomattox, Virginia.

Town Council Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, Steven T. Conner, M.
Erin Finch, Claudia G. Puckette, and Mayor Paul D. Harvey.

County Board members present:  Sara Carter, Sam Carter, Chad Millner, and Bill Hogan.

Absent:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., and Bryan Moody.

Others:  Clarence Monday, Linda Lipscomb, Susan Adams, County Administrator; Vicky
Phelps, Daniel Puckette, Nathan Harbin and Roxanne W. Casto, Town Clerk.

At 6:30 p.m., Mayor Harvey called Town Council meeting to order.  Mr. Carter, Chairman called
the Board of Supervisors to order.

Mayor Harvey introduced Phillip Jamerson, Teresa Lawson and Nathan Harbin for a
presentation of the Courtland Field/Park “Proposed” Project.  Mayor Harvey turned the
presentation over to Mr. Jamerson.

Mr. Jamerson presented a vision for Courtland Festival Park.  Phillip, Teresa, and Nathan having
been meeting for some time along with Susan Adams, Jeff Elder and Paul Harvey.  This all came
from a community vision meeting held back in April/May 2016, started focusing on the
Courtland Field and Abbitt Park.  Mr. Jamerson read the cover letter from the handout provided
to Town Council and the Board of Supervisors.

Dear Supervisors and members of Town Council:
I present a citizens group that would like for you to consider working with us to create a multi-
faceted festival park at Courtland Field.  Research suggests that parks benefit community’s in
many ways.  There is economic value - direct and indirect income as well as increased property
values.  There are health benefits – both physical and mental.  Finally, there are social benefits
as far as civic pride and connecting citizens from diverse backgrounds.  Attached is the
conceptual design for the festival park, delivery method and budget.  Our concept compliments
the Experience Appomattox marketing plan that is in place now.  If the joint board looks
favorably upon our request, we propose to expand our group to include one supervisor, one
council members and expect to bring in others as needed for consultation and inclusion.  This
proposal is the first step in our process, the second step is joint board approval and third is seed
money to compete the design.  If all goes well, we would like to break ground in April of this year
(2017) and have completion by January 2018.  We have successfully completed the silent phase
of a fundraising campaign and stand ready to put forth the effort to convert Courtland Field into
a community showplace that we can all be proud of.  We all appreciate this opportunity to
present for your consideration.

2  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and

Appomatox County Board of Supervisors
January 19, 2017

Mr. Jamerson stated they are hopeful to accomplish a center for cultural arts.  Appomattox is
known for its history, but we will always have that.  It can’t be taken away from us.  We are just
trying to do something that adds to that.  If Floyd County can do it, so can Appomattox.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 8:15 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mrs. Sara Carter, seconded by Mr. Millner, the Board voted to also adjourn at
8:15 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

