ref: reel_03_0868
date: 1984-07-01
content: Page 2 of 3 Mr. Britton reported on the two well sites on the Stanley property.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to go
with the drilling of the third well, and if this does not work,
then pump test the best two of the three wells.

Carter-aye Bass-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Webb-aye
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council voted to
authorize Mr. Britton to handle the Clean-up during the Railroad
Festival Week-end, and all members present voting aye. Motion
carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to refer the
request from Dr. Smith to re-zone his property on Confederate Blvd.
from M-1 to B-1 and to hold the Public Hearing on August 13, 1984,
with all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

It was general consensus that if the Division of Motor Vehicles,
concurs then Town Council has no objections to Betty K. Ford, Registrar
working in the Council room on the last Friday of months of August
and September.

Mayor Spiggle appointed the members of the Standing Committees.
(See copy in Council file - July 1984)

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council nominated
R. L. Bass, as Vice-Mayor of the Appomattox Town Council.

Carter-aye Conner-aye Webb-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Bass-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to
deny the request from Mike & Pam Weakley, to waive the Tournament Fees
in accordance with Town Policy, and all members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved
the use of the Town Seal by Tommy Terry in his book, and all members
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to deny
the request from Mr. Steve Pool to live upstairs in his building on
Route 460 until he sells his home.

Carter-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Webb-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Conner, the following resolution
was adopted by Council:

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox recognizes the
need for flood protection, watershed protection
and other water resource application for
assistance to the Soil Conservation Service;
chunk_id: 20884
record_id: 1904
page_number: 1

