ref: reel_03_0846
date: 1983-09-12
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, September 12, 1983, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, T. W. Lawson, and S. E. Carter.

Others present were: Reid Shields, Bookie Johnson, Frances Abbitt, W. R. Britton, Jr, and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Webb, the Agenda with one addition to New Business: 6. Old lights at Ball Park, was approved and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Webb, the minutes of the July 11, 1983 meeting were approved as submitted and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Reid Shields, resident of Morton Lane, appeared before Council to request some help from the Town on the damages to the basement of his house due to a Sewer problem in the line on Morton Lane.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to refer Mr. Shields' request to the Sewer Committee for their study and give the Committee full authority to act on this request.

Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Webb-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Bookie Johnson presented some prices and quotes to Council for future improvements at the Town Ball Park. Council requested Mr. Johnson to obtain more quotes and figures and bring these back to Town Council for consideration in the 1984 Budget.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Webb, the Financial Statements for June, July, and August, 1983, were approved by Council and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

It was general concensus of Town Council that if the insulation is the problem with rental of the two rooms at the Depot, then the Town will insulate the two rooms and offer it to Mrs. Virginia Hancock again at the $100.00 a month rental fee.

Council discussed the proposed Loitering Ordinance at this time, but took no action.

Council requested Mr. Britton to check with James C. May & Associates and get the Engineering Costs for figuring an Availability Fee for Mr. Billy Carrico to dump his Septage into the Town Sewer System.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to re-appoint Mr. S. E. Carter, to the Central Virginia Planning District Commission for a one-year term of office and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20863
record_id: 1883
page_number: 1

