ref: reel_03_0710
date: 1980-01-14
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, January 14, 1980, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor R. C. Spiggle presiding. Members present were R. C. Hubbard, T. W. Lawson, R. L. Bass, S. E. Carter, M. E. Gordon, and T. E. Conner. Also present were: Dr. James May & Bill Berkley, May Associates, Martin Watts, Criminal Justice Planner, Patsy Butler, Railroad Festival Board; Citizens present were: J. L. Gordon, & Claudia Gordon, Mr. Bill Sherrod and Beck Hudson, Times-Virginian, B. H. Mullins, Clerk and W. R. Britton, Jr. Town Manager. The meeting was opened with a prayer. On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Carter, the Agenda was approved and all voted yes. The minutes of the last meeting were approved as presented on a motion by Mr. Hubbard, and seconded by Mr. Carter, and all voted yes. Miss Gordon appeared before Council to present two petitions obtained by her. One petition on the noise problem and the other on the dust problem. The petitions were made a part of the official record. (See Council file dated January 1980, Exhibit #1) Mrs. Butler appeared before Council to inform them that the Festival may become a separate entity in itself, but this is only in the talking stage now. Martin Watts, Criminal Justice Planner, presented an amendment to the Regional Drug Squad Agreement deleting "circuit court judge" from the agreement and substituting "a practicing member of the Virginia Bar." Mr. Bass made the motion, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, to approve the recommended amendment as presented by Martin Watts. (See Council file dated January 1980, Exhibit #2) Conner-aye Gordon-aye Bass-aye Carter-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried unanimously. Mr. Britton reported to Council that we have no specific procedures for the sale of public property but we do have the authority to sell the public property. Mr. Britton reported that on January 24th, we have been invited to Chestertown, Maryland, to view an Overland Flow System in operation there. Council members may attend if they want to. Dr. May & Bill Berkley discussed the Plans and Bid Documents for the Waterline Construction with Council. Several revisions were requested by Council and will be incorporated in the Plans. On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Gordon, Council approved the Plans and Bid Documents for the waterline construction project with the revisions as requested by Council and set the time for the pre-bid conference for February 12, 1980 at 11:00 A.M. and the Bid opening for February 21, 1980, at 2:00 P.M. Conner-aye Gordon-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20786
record_id: 1806
page_number: 1

