1  Special Call Council Meeting
Tuesday, April 7, 2009

The Appomattox Town Council held a Special Call Council meeting on Tuesday, April 7,
2009 at 5:30 pm at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Bryan J. Baine, N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, John
T. “Plicky” Williams, Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.

Others  present:    Bob  Hopkins,  Hurt  &  Proffitt,  Inc.,  Frank  Wright,  Jr.,  Town  Attorney
and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Carter, Council
voted  to  convene  in  Closed  Session  pursuant  to  Section  2.2-3711(A)  7  of  the  Code  of
Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel retained
by the Town regarding specific legal advice for such counsel, the subject matter of such
meeting being the town’s legal obligation under the Engineering Services Contract with
Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. dated April 1, 1996.

Vote:    Baine  –  aye,  Mayberry  –  aye,  McDearmon  –  aye,  Williams  –  aye,  Carter  –  aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that
to  the  best  of  each  members  knowledge:  (1)  Only  public  business  matters  lawfully
exempted  from  open  meetings  requirements  by  Virginia  law  were  discussed  in  the
closed  meeting  to  which  this  certificate  resolution  applies,  and  (2)  only  such  public
business  matters  as  were  identified  in  the  motion  convening  the  closed  meeting  were
heard, discussed or considered by this council.

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  McDearmon,  seconded  by  Councilmember  Williams,
Council voted to allow Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. to prepare the Request for Proposal (RFP) as
needed for the Stag Grant Application.  Please note that this authorization is specifically
limited to the STAG Grant Use RFP Preparation scope of work outlined in a letter dated
April 6, 2009 from Robert A. Hopkins.  The notice given on April 1, 2009 terminating the
Engineering  Services  Contract  dated  April  1,  1996  remains  in  effect.    All  members
present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, second by Councilmember Williams,
Council voted to adjourn at 6:10 pm.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette,
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey,
Mayor

