1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 14, 2014

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, October 14, 2014
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Jr., C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N.H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Rev. Jonathan Watson, Bible Baptist Church; Katrina Koerting, News and Advance;
Stephanie James, Times Virginian; Carlton Duck and Brian Moore, Alive Media TV; Stacey
Wilkes, Town Treasurer; C. William Gillespie, Jr., Town Manager; and Roxanne W. Casto,
Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Jonathan Watson, Bible Baptist Church led the prayer and the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments:
On behalf of the Railroad Festival committee and Board of Directors, Mayor Harvey thanked
Council for their donation and in kind goods and services to a successful Railroad Festival
weekend.  There were numerous new events this year.  The return of the Joel Sweeney Race,
horse exhibition, magic show and the parade was very good.

Scheduled Public Appearances – None

Consent Agenda –
On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda of October 14, 2014 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Unfinished Business –
None

New Business –
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to amend Section 185-21
of the Code of the Town of Appomattox, Chapter 185, Article III, Section 21, entitled “Parking
in fire lanes & areas for Town trash containers prohibited; penalty”.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adopt the Town
Council Standing Committee Rules and Procedural Guidelines for Standing Council Committees
as presented.
Roll Call Vote:  Garrett – no, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – no, Mayberry – yes, Conner – no,
Puckette – yes.  The motion was tied 3-3.  Mayor Harvey voted – yes.  Motion carried 4-3.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 14, 2014

Treasurer’s Report
Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer provided an overview of the August 2014 Financial Reports.

Closed Session –
On a motion by Council Member Mayberry, seconded by Council Member Puckette, Council
voted to convene in Closed Session, Council voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to
Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion
of the performance of a specific public appointee of the Town, specifically being Appointee A.

Vote:
Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Mayberry – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Spiggle made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLOVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member McDearmon and Council by the following
recorded vote adopted the motion:

Vote:
Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Mayberry – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

Council agreed by consensus to advertise the new job description of the Town Manager in
November 2014.

Town Manager Update –
None

Citizen Comment period –
None

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 14, 2014

Council Concerns –
Mrs. Puckette thanked everyone including staff for coming to the picnic.  Mayor Harvey said he
had heard lots of positive comments.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 8:50 p.m.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

