1  Workshop Meeting
    Tuesday, October 23, 2012

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, October 23, 2012
at 7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present: Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Mary Lou
Spiggle, N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present: Chad Millner, Stephanie James, Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; C.
William Gillespie, Interim Town Manager; Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to Workshop meeting of October 23, 2012 to order.

Mayor Harvey advised Council of the following changes to the agenda:
1 – Remove #3 – Carlton Duck – Presentation of the Tourism video
2 – Add a Closed Session – Pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended for the purpose of discussion of the resignation of a specific public employee,
specifically being Employee A.

Mr. Gillespie, Town Manager gave Council a copy of the 2012 Priorities and Initiatives
for their review.  The next Council retreat is scheduled for Friday, October 26, 2012
where Council will be outlining their 2013 Priorities and Initiatives.

At the December 2012 Regular Meeting, Council will review the 2013 Priorities and
Initiatives and vote to adopt them at their January 2013 Regular Meeting.

An update on the 2012 Priorities and Initiatives included:
1 – Sidewalk Replacement Program

The Town started this project several years ago.  The first year included the work

for years 1 and 2 focusing on the downtown walking area.

2 – Skateboard Park

The Woodmen of the World property survey has been completed.  No further

plans or discussions have ensued since the survey.

3 – Children’s Park & Waterpark

Mr. Gillespie has some information on water parks.  They are not as expensive as

you might think.  Ms. Paulette has some information for children’s equipment at the
Children’s Park.

4 – Zoning Ordinance

Mr. Gillespie intends to have the edits completed by Thanksgiving and then send
them to the Town Attorney for review.  He anticipates this item coming back to Council
in late winter or early spring for a Public Hearing.

2  Workshop Meeting
    Tuesday, October 23, 2012

5 – Blighted Properties

A draft ordinance has been prepared and will be sent to the Town Attorney for his

review.

6 – Senior housing & Adult Care

Some items are being allowed through the changes to the Zoning Ordinance.

7 – Trickling Filter Plant

The Physical Development Committee authorized staff to move forward with the

project and the timeline will be updated.  The next step will be to look at increasing the
water and sewer capacities.  So, the Town will move forward with the TFP pump station,
SBR expansion and then the water and sewer system as a whole.

8 – Development of an Employee Pay System
The item has been completed.

9 – Town Planning Commission

The ordinance has been adopted.

10 – Town Shop (Public Works Complex)

The Ribbon Cutting for the new building was held today, October 23, 2012.
The project has been completed.

11 – Implementation of Storm water Regulations

Mr. Gillespie has had some discussions with Appomattox County and he will

become certified to administer the plan.

12 – EMS Services

Mr. Gillespie has not really looked at this yet.

13 – Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)

Mr. Gillespie reported that he has identified an area to be considered in a study.

The Town would qualify for the $25,000 grant however, he would like to look into a
more comprehensive grant that would include housing, water and sewer, drainage and
street infrastructure (sidewalks) but housing must be the initial component.

14 – Sewer Rate Increases

This item has been completed.

15 – Infrastructure

Mr. Elder is working on a capital improvement plan by identify the Town’s

current infrastructure.

16 – Economic Development

Mr. Gillespie encouraged Council to spend some time in this area.  Mr. Bryan

David will be talking with Council in the future about the CEDS program.

3  Workshop Meeting
    Tuesday, October 23, 2012

17 – Financial Policies

Council has adopted the Reserve Funds policy and the Undesignated Fund

Balance.

18 – Cooperative Training

Mr. Gillespie has contacted the Virginia Technical Institute who indicated they

would be interested in coming to Appomattox.  VTI will contact the Appomattox County
Public School system.

19 – Shuttle Service

Mr. Gillespie has spoken with USDA and they have a grant available for this

project.

Committee Updates
Finance & Planning

Mr. McDearmon reported that the committee met on October 9, 2012 and received a
request from Rev. Rusty Small, Liberty Baptist Church asking if the ice skating rink used
for the Community of Candles could be left in the library parking lot for an extra week
after the Community of Candles event.

The committee also heard a request from Ray Perkins, Appomattox Youth Association
President regarding a donation of $50,000 for the youth park.

The committee also finalized the proposed zoning map, reviewed the June 2012 Financial
Report and discussed the trickling filter plant closure project.

Physical Development Committee

Mr. Mayberry reported that the committee met today, October 23, 2012 and discussed the
counter offer on the Boundary Line Adjustment and Sewer Project with Appomattox
County.  The committee also discussed alternatives to the sewer expansion/lines in town,
the ribbon cutting ceremony at the new Public Works facilities and office renovations to
enlarge the conference room and add a bathroom.

Staff Updates

Town Manager – Mr. Gillespie received a requested from the group handling the Train
Excursion concerning a donation of the T-Shirts at the Gift Shop of the Visitor Center
being donated to them.

On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council
voted to donate (at no cost) the T-Shirts from the Visitor Information Center Gift Shop to
the Train Excursion committee members.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

4  Workshop Meeting
    Tuesday, October 23, 2012

Additionally, the Appomattox Historical Society has asked if the Town would consider
donating the remaining items to their organization for them to sell at their gift shop at the
Clover Hill Village.

On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council
voted to donate (at no cost) the remaining items from the Visitor Information Center Gift
Shop to the Appomattox Historical Society.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

Mr. Gillespie also reported on the numerous complaints received regarding the Court
Street Railroad Crossing.  It is extremely rough.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to authorize the
Mayor to sign and send a resolution to Norfolk and Southern requesting repairs to be
made to the Court Street Railroad Crossing.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

Treasurer – none

Clerk of Council – none

Council Concerns

Mrs. Spiggle reported that she has been contacted by several downtown business owners
regarding some suggestions that appeared in the recent Appomattox County feasibility
analysis.  This was presented to the County Board of Supervisors by Dr. Ken Brunson
and by Bill Slagle.  The county paid Dr. Brunson $5000 for the feasibility study and
almost $500.00 for various other expenses, including a 3 day trip to Williamsburg, VA.

In the study Dr. Brunson stated that a Welcome Center needs to be located by the
highway so that it can be seen.  This was a concern by many of her contituents.  They do
not want the Visitor Center moved.  I want to let the citizens and business owners know
that neither Council nor staff were involved in the study or ever consulted about it.

The welcome center is not the same as the Visitor Center that is owned and operated by
the Town of Appomattox.  She wants to assure everyone that the town has no plans of
closing or moving our Visitor’s Center.

Dr. Harvey stated that he believed Dr. Brunson was suggesting that a welcome center be
added on Route 460 not closing or moving the Visitor’s Center.

Ms. Spiggle stated that the constituents were confused.

Mr. Conner added that Dr. Brunson didn’t say we should do anything – he was just
stating the fact that a welcome center would be more beneficial on the highway.

5  Workshop Meeting
    Tuesday, October 23, 2012

Mr. McDearmon suggested that Council or staff look into silver lettering for the new
Public Works Building.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to authorize
staff to look into individual letting for the new Public Works building.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon,
Council voted to convene in a Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of
Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion of the resignation of a specific
public employee, specifically being Employee A.

VOTE:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to
the best of each members knowledge:  (1) Only public business matters lawfully
exempted from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed
meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business
matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard,
discussed, or considered by this council.

VOTE:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye.

Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon,
Council voted to accept the resignation of Employee A, effective November 9, 2012.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Conner, seconded by Councilmember Puckette, Council
voted to adjourn at 8:15 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

______________________________
Roxanne W. Paulette, MMC
Clerk of Council

____________________________
Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

