ref: reel_03_0037
date: 1975-04-14
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, April 14, 1975 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Those members present were Mr. Marvin J. House, Jr., R.C. Hubbard, Burke Guill, Ronald Spiggle, Mrs. Earle Robinson, and T. E. Conner.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Fire Committee met with the Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department in order to establish better lines of communications with the Fire Department. The Fire Department expressed a need for two 50 foot hose for the Town truck, and for two additional Air-Paks at an estimated cost of $700-1000. Mr. House made the motion to donate the two 50 foot hose to the Fire Department, seconded by Mrs. Robinson. Motion carried.

Mr. House made a motion to increase the accidental death benefits to $10,000 in the Firemen insurance policy, seconded by Mr. Hubbard. Motion carried.

Mr. Spiggle and Mr. Slagle summarized their appearance before the State Water Control Board and expressed the opinion that it was very beneficial to the Town.

Slagle further advised that he has since been notified that the Town will receive a Step I Grant in FY76.

Mr. Slagle reported that we have checked around with several localities concerning garbage trucks. He has drawn up specifications using Lynchburg specifications sheet, as a guide. He explained that the specifications need some refinement at this stage before they can be submitted for bid.

Mr. Conner requested the Town to check into the possibility of placing containers at the apartment houses and have the County truck pick them up.

Mr. Slagle explained the status of the Well Lot 9. He explained that the site chosen by the State Health Department and the geologist was owned by Kendall Hunter. He stated he has been in contact with Mr. Hunter and he is not receptive to selling or letting an option on this lot. The only alternative left is condemnation proceedings. Mr. Slagle was requested to take whatever steps that are necessary to get the well development underway.

Council requested Mr. Slagle to contact the Highway Department and get the sidewalk and curb and gutter project underway, using the right-of-way that we are assured of up to Hunter Street.

Mr. Slagle reported the necessary utility easements have been reserved on the property to be deeded from the Virginia
chunk_id: 20248
record_id: 1268
page_number: 1

