Page 2 of 2
June 12, 1989

Carter-aye Carson-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Mitchell-aye
Motion carried.

Council discussed the projected water/sewer stutus and the
proposed Community Center at the Ball Park property. Council
will cooperate.as much as possible, but they can not fund the
extension of the water and sewer lines at this time. With regard
to the second letter, we can not committ to an Industrial park,
because the Town is already committed to serving the citizens and
property that we have taken into the Corporate Limits.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council
approved the request for rezoning of the Paxton property in
accordance witht eh recommendations of the Planning Commission
from §-2 to M-1 zone, and all those present voting aye. Motion
carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, Seconded by Mr.. Carson, Council voted
to adopt the Town Code as revised and codified by Michie Company,
1988 (see attached copy).

Carter-aye Carson-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Mitchell-aye
Motion carried,

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted
unanimously to adopt the resolution on Police Services
contractual” agreement with the County (see attached copy).

Carter-aye Carson-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Mitchell-aye
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted
to pursue the feasibility of purchasing a second Computer
terminal and Bookkeeping program for the office using a $3500.00
figure as a base and all those present voting aye. Motion
carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Cartr, Council voted
to participate in the project of refurbishing the poles for the

Ball Park on a 50/50 basis at an approximate cost of $2400.00 and
all those present voting aye. Motion carried..

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted
to appoint Mr. Bass as a liaison between Town Council and

the Sheriff's Department and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

There being no further business to come before Council, the
meeting adjourned.

R. L. Bass, Vice-Mayor

Bobbie H. “Mulltins

