130

‘Regular Meeting - June 8, 1992

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday,
June 8, 1992 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Marvin Mitchell, R. Ll. Bass,
W. H. Carson, S. EH. Carter, and H. W. Conner.

-Others present were: Steve Lawson, Iris Mann, Lisa Ellis, Bill Sherrod,

Cheryl Freeman, Barbara Williams, Clerk, Louvenia Wheeler, Karen hilly,
Thomas & Brerida Bates, Dennis Gragg, Beckie Nix, Noami Ragland,

Jeff Carwile, Mrs. Collins, Betty Fennix, Quanita Randolph, Dianne
Martin, and Bobbie Mulllins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to
adopt the Agenda with the following additions: 8. Resolutions;

9. Kiddie Park; 10. Depot Productions; 11. Chamber of Commerce,

12. Stephens City, Virginia, 13. Property Committee-Executive Session,
and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Citizens in the area of Lombardy Street and residents of Dogwood
Apartments appeared before Town Council to discuss the problems in that
area. Several spoke in regard to foul language, loud music, loitering,
speeding and recently the violence that has occured.

After lengthy discussions the Town Council agreed to cooperate with
the Sheriffs Department and.the residents of this area to help solve
these problems. Several good ideas and solutions were offered such
as a "Neighborhood Watch" and an “Apartment Watch" program.

Dennis Gragg, Director, Central Virginia Planning District Commission,
appeared before Town Council to request their approval of a Charter
Change. Two members are needed to represent the Town on the Commission.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted

to approve the Charter Change of Article II, Section 2, each
governmental Subdivision which is a party to this Charter Agreement
shall appoint two members to the Cammission, one of whom shall be an
elected member of the government body and one of whom shall be either
the Chief Administrative/Executive Officer or his designated Staff
Member and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to
appoint the Mayor as the elected member of the Central Virginia
Planning District Commission, whose tem of office will be effective
July thr June 30, 1995 along with S. E. Carter, whose term expires on
June 30, 1996, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mrs. Beckie Nix, Chamber of Commerce, presented a signed lease for
rental of the Depot at $400.00 a month rent. Mayor Spiggle will
execute the lease.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council voted to
agree to the Additional Coverage Insurance for General Liability - ;
from the Department of Risk Management Commonwealth of Virginiay ‘for -
$250.00 and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

a

