ref: reel_02_0307
date: 1955-09-19
content: SEPTEMBER 1955

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council met in the Mayor's Office on September 19, 1955, at 7:30 P.M., with Mayor Chas. F. James presiding. The following members were present: W.S. Gillis, R.E. Smith, J.C. Caldwell, T. Hunter Dickerson, J.T. Irby and Mrs. C.H. Robinson.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

A motion was made by J.T. Irby, seconded by J.C. Caldwell that Mrs. C.H. Robinson by President of the Council. Motion carried.

Mrs. Lawson and Mrs. Flood met with the Council to see if the Council would continue to collect the garbage twice a week as in the past. Motion was made by Mrs. C.H. Robinson. Not seconded.

A Motion was made by J.T. Irby, that the police hours be changed, Mr. Mitchell's hours be from 6:00 P.M. to 2:00 A.M.; Sunday through Thursday night, Mr. Stanley's hours be from 6:00 P.M. Friday night to 6:00 A.M. and Saturday night 6:00 P.M. to 6:00 A.M. The motion was not seconded.

Motion was made by J.C. Caldwell seconded by Mrs. C.H. Robinson that a sign be erected on each end of Town, 35 miles speed limit, strictly enforced. Voting, for: Mrs. Robinson, Mr. Dickerson, Mr. Caldwell, Mr. Smith and Mr. Gillis, voting against: J.T. Irby. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Mrs. C.H. Robinson, seconded by W.S. Gillis that C.J. Hunter be made a Notary Public. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Mrs. C.H. Robinson, seconded by T. Hunter Dickerson, that the Property Committee investigate the possibility of using Mrs. Ferguson's lot at Almond's Store as a parking lot for the sum of the taxes and cleaning off the weeds. The Committee to have the authority to make the arrangements. Motion carried.

Motion was made by R.E. Smith, seconded by J.C. Caldwell, that the Town Council lease the Appomattox Ball Park to the Appomattox IPPAY (I-Pay-Ten-A-Year) Club for the amount of $12.00 per year beginning January 1, 1956 with the agreement that they keep up and maintain the park in good order and be responsible for all expenses for a period of one year ending December 31, 1956. All improvements are to be made by the IPTAY Club. Motion carried.

There being no further business the meeting adjourned to meet again on the regular meeting date which is October 17, 1955.

Signed Chas. F. James Mayor
Signed C.J. Hunter Clerk
chunk_id: 19791
record_id: 811
page_number: 1

