ref: reel_02_0239
date: 1950-01-16
content: Regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on January 16, 1950 with Mayor G. B. Buchanan presiding and the following members present; Chas. F. James, J. E. Jamerson, G. S. Jenkins, J. C. Caldwell, F. L. Murphy and C. T. Moses, Jr.
Mrs. S. S. Shouse appeared before the council requesting a sewer line on the entire East-side of North Avenue from Liberty Road connection. On a motion duly carried the request was referred to the Street Committee for consideration.
Mr. W. J. Legrand was present to present a bill in the amount of $75.00 in payment for his dog drowned in the Sewer Plant. On a motion of G. S. James, seconded by F. L. Murphy payment in the amount of $62.50 was authorized.
Mr. A. A. Lane appeared before the council to recommend a special chemical substance for painting the interior of the new water tank. On a motion by C. S. Jenkins, seconded by J. J. Jamerson and carried his proposal was declined for the present.
Minutes of the last meeting read and approved as read.
The letter from the Commissioner of the Revenue for the City of Lynchburg relating to their rates and requirements in issuing licenses to in and out of town Laundries, Cleaners, Electricians and Plumbers was read. On a motion by F. L. Murphy, seconded by C. F. James licenses to out of town laundries and cleaners practicing within the Appomattox corporate limits be increased from the present $15.00 to $50.00 each per year effective from this date and that all such persons and establishments now working within the corporate limits be immediately notified in writing of the change in their license fees.
It was agreed that the street going through Mrs. T. L. Moses' property from the Seventh Day Adventist Church North to Route #460 and North Avenue be recommended to the State Highway Department as the one quarter mile they should add to their maintenance in the year 1950.
On motion by C. T. Moses, Jr. and seconded by C. S. Jenkins it was ordained that the one parking space on each side of Church Street nearest the crossing be designated as No Parking as a measure of safety in the operation of the newly installed Automatic Electric gates.
On a motion duly carried the Mayor was authorized to obtain and have installed the most trouble free automatic controls for the two new water pumps and the new water tank and to lease from the local Telephone Co. a circuit connecting each pump house and the new tank to the above control at the cost of $1.50 per month.
On a motion by C. S. Jenkins, seconded by C. F. James and carried, Mrs. S. S. Shouse shall be notified that the Town will furnish sewer connections to any houses on the East side of North Avenue that can be served by the present sewer line.
On motion duly carried a street light was authorized between or near the residences of W. H. Richardson and Dr. David Christian, III.
On motion duly carried purchase of a hand operated pump suitable for aid in repairing the Town's water lines was authorized.
On a motion adjourned.
Signed: E. Carroll Smith, Clerk, G. B. Buchanan, Mayor
chunk_id: 19723
record_id: 743
page_number: 1

