ref: reel_02_0520
date: 1968-09-16
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held in the Council Room on September 16, 1968, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Peak presiding.

Members present were Mrs. Calvin Robinson, R. L. Bass, Burke Guill, Ivey Holland, R. G. Hubbard, and M. L. Webb.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Mr. John C. Cole a member of the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors and Sheriff L. L. Stanley appeared before the Council to offer to share in the cost and services of a deputy sheriff who would work in the Town and County. The State will pay a part of the salary and car mileage. The County will buy the car. The County and Town would pay the balance each which will be $1700.00 a year.

Hubbard moved and Holland seconded that the Mayor be authorized to attend to the details and enter the agreement. Motion carried unanimously.

Holland reported that Mr. Elon Johnson wanted the Town to mow the lot next to the lagoon. Action was postponed until a check is made of the survival of the pines planted there.

The Mayor was authorized to request a short wave band for the Town use.

Webb moved and Guill seconded that a new light be installed in the Firemen's room. Motion carried.

Guill moved and Bass seconded that:

Resolve that the Virginia Department of Highways be requested to supply, and bill the Town of Appomattox, 30 gallons of yellow traffic paint at cost plus 10%. The Town is unable to buy the paint locally. Motion carried.

The following resolution was made by Bass and seconded by Mrs. Robinson:

WHEREAS the Town owns a lot fronting on Patricia Anne lane known as Well No. 4 lot, and

WHEREAS the use of the Well has been abandoned and the Town has not further use of the lot, and

WHEREAS the value of $1500.00 was put on the lot by two uninterested appraisers, and Evans and Nash Construction Company have offered the Town $1500.00 for the lot,

BE IT RESOLVED that the Town sell the lot to Evans and Nash Construction Company for $1500.00.
chunk_id: 19991
record_id: 1011
page_number: 1

