COUNCIL MEETING – JULY 11, 2005

A Regular Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, July 11, 2005 at 7:30 p.m. at the Municipal Building on Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present:  Joyce B. Bennett, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John L. Wilson, Steven E. Lawson.  Absent:  Marvin H. Mitchell.

Others present:  Frank A. Wright, Jr., Town Attorney; David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager; Jeff Elder, Utility Director; Marvin Hamlett and Chad Millner, Times Virginian; Zach Smith, News & Advance; Derek Norfield and Carlton Duck, Alive TV; Kelly Hitchcock, Region 2000 Regional Commission and Roxanne W. Paulette, Town Clerk.

Mayor Spiggle opened the meeting with an invocation.

## On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to approve the consent agenda with changes to the June 13, 2005 Council Meeting minutes to reflect the following:

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to approve the Conditional Use Permit for Richard Purcell on Autumn Lane in M-1 with salvage vehicles to be placed on the side of the building.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Kelly Hitchcock of the Region 2000 Regional Commission presented a program to the council regarding the National Park Service’s Rivers, Trail and Conservation Assistance Program.  The technical assistance program helps provide guidance to communities in developing concrete plans for conserving cultural, historic and natural resources.   Hitchcock said the commission would draft an application to be presented at a joint meeting of the town and county July 28, 2005.

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember Bennett, Council voted to support the creation of a Resolution of Support to the Region 2000 Regional Commission for an application for the National Park Service’s Rivers, Trail and Conservation Assistance Program.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted to cancel the Council Workshop on Tuesday, July 26, 2005.  Vote –

Bennett-aye, Mayberry-aye, McDearmon-aye, Lawson-aye, Wilson-no.  Motion

carried 4-1.

Page 2 of 2

July 11, 2005

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 A.1 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as amended, for the purpose of discussion and salary consideration of a specific public employee of the Town of Appomattox, specifically being Employee A.

Vote: Bennett-aye, Mayberry-aye, McDearmon-aye, Wilson-aye, Lawson-aye.  Mitchell-absent.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

Vote: Bennett-aye, Mayberry-aye, McDearmon-aye, Wilson-aye, Lawson-aye.  Mitchell-absent.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Bennett, Council voted to change the salary of Employee A from $32,000 to 34,500, retroactive to July 1, 2005.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council voted to adjourn at 8:12 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC				Ronald C. Spiggle,

Town Clerk						Mayor
