Regular Meeting - May 12, 1997

The Appomattox Town Council held its regular meeting on Monday, May
12, 1997 with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: §. E. Lawson, Marvin Mitchell, Rick Pack, R. L. Bass,
S. E. Carter, and Norman Mayberry.

Others present: Erma Coflin, Brett Thompson, Franklin Vaughan, David Wilbun,
William Phillips, Town Attorney, Cindy Smith, Times-Virginian, and
Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Steve Lawson, Council approved the Agenda
with the following additions to New Business: 8. Public Hearing - Cable TV, 9. Bible
Baptist Church - Water Connection, 10, Executive Session, and 11. Debris - Court
Street to Route 460, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Franklin Vaughan, President, Chamber of Commerce, appeared before Town
Council to request that the Town pay one-half of the cost of printing the Brochures,
The approximate price being $4825.00. He also requested that possibly the Town
help out with the postage for these mailings.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Steve Lawson, Council voted to deny the
request from W. S. Slagle, to change the “No Parking” in front of his building on
Church Street, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to erect signs
in the Library parking lot indicating “tractor trailer parking prohibited” and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr, Lawson, seconded by Mr. Rick Pack, Council voted to table the
resolution “No Thru Trucks” as recommended by the Street Committee, and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council voted to deny the
request to extend Atwood Street to Court Street, and all those present
voting aye. Motion carried

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Pack, Council voted to table Item 3,
Unfinished Business, “Stormwater Detention” and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

a65

