1  Council Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, September 24, 2013

The Appomattox Town Council held a workshop council meeting on Tuesday, September 24,
2013 at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle,
N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner, Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Danny Richardson, Chad Millner, Audrey Wright, Lisa Pannell, Katrina Koetring, Andy
Carroll, Ed Shober, Benny Harvey, Bob Goode, Rodney Deaner, Stephanie James, Bill Gillespie,
Town Manager; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer, and Roxanne Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Mayor’s Comments –
Mr. Gillespie provided a Powerpoint presentation regarding the creation of the Economic
Development Authority by the Appomattox Town Council.

Mayor Harvey encouraged those present to apply to serve.  The deadline for completed
applications is October 4, 2013.

Committee Updates –
Finance & Planning Committee – Mr. McDearmon reported that the Finance & Planning
Committee met on Monday, September 9, 2013.  They discussed creating an Economic
Development Authority and creating a water & sewer adjustment policy.

Physical Development Committee – Mr. Mayberry reported that the committee met this
afternoon and discussed a request by the Chamber of Commerce to change the date of the annual
Community of Candles event, discussed the water and sewer adjustment policy, public works
organizational chart, boundary line adjustment and an update on the cell tower lease agreements.

Staff Updates –
Town Manager – none
Town Clerk – none
Town Treasurer – none

Council Concerns –
Mr. Conner expressed concerns regarding the Retail Marketing Study is not necessarily looking
at just jobs.  He also expressed concern that the EDA group should be comprised of members
who could keep things confidential.

Mrs. Puckette thanked everyone for coming out tonight.  The EDA is vital to our economic
development.  We need to do all we can to benefit from our community.

2  Council Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, September 24, 2013

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council voted
to adjourn.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

