ref: reel_03_0656
date: 1982-04-12
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, April 12, 1982, at 7:30 P.M. with Vice-Mayor R.L. Bass presiding.

Those members present were: R.C. Hubbard, W.H. Carson, Ray Nobbe, S.E. Carter, and T.W. Lawson.

Also present were: Bill Hunter, Jim Nolen, Sam Kerr, Frances Paulette, Mrs. Kenneth Richardson, Evelyn Roach, Jane Cyrus, Faye Lewis, Delores Jones, Doris Dalton, Robert Doss.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Nobbe, Council approved the Agenda, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Nobbe, the minutes of the previous meeting were approved as submitted and all members voted aye. Motion carried.

Mrs. Evelyn Roach, as spokesperson for the citizens, requested Council to do something about the traffic problems in Morris Heights Subdivision. They would like to lower the speed limits and maybe install traffic bumps.

Mr. Kerr spoke briefly to Council on Arco, Inc. He requested Council to give them until Friday at 2:00 to finalize the sale of the Cablevision.

Mr. Hunter, Farmers National Bank, spoke to Council concerning Arco. He expressed his appreciation to Council for their patience in this matter.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Nobbe, Council voted to adopt the Cable TV Franchise Ordinance as previously advertised in the Times-Virginian. (See copy in Council file - April 1982).

Carson-aye Carter-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Nobbe-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to rescind the previous action taken by them at the regular meeting held on January, 1982, as recorded in Council minutes, Page 80, paragraph one.

Carson-aye Carter-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Nobbe-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to accept the request as stated by W.S. Kerr, to transfer the Cable TV Franchise from Arco, Inc. and Farmers National Bank to Bathcal Broadcasting Company, with the stipulation that the contract be signed and sealed on the 16th of April, and if not, the Franchise is withdrawn and revoked from Arco, Inc.

Carson-aye Carter-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Nobbe-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Jim Nolen, acting President of the Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce, appeared before Council to request a donation to the "Chamber" in order for them to be able to have the "Brochure" printed. He also requested Council to consider purchasing the property.
chunk_id: 20743
record_id: 1763
page_number: 1

