1  Appomattox Town Council

Special Call Council Meeting
May 16, 2017-6:00 p.m.

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, May 16, 2017 at
6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Clarence Monday, Interim Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of
Council

Mayor Harvey called the Special Call Council meeting to order and stated the purpose of the
Special Call Council meeting as a closed session.

Closed Session
On a motion by Councilmember Conner, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council voted to
convene in Closed Session, Pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended, for the purpose of interviewing prospective candidates for the position of Town
Manager with the Town of Appomattox, specifically being prospective candidate D and for the
purpose of discussion of prospective candidates for employment, specifically being applicants
for the position of Town Manager.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye.

Council Member Finch made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Conner and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Special Call Council Meeting
May 16, 2017-6:00 p.m.

Mayor Harvey read the following statement:
The Town Council, as authorized by Virginia Code §2.2-3712(B), within fifteen (15) days of
said announcement, will be interviewing potential Town Manager candidate(s), in Closed
Session, at undisclosed time(s) and location(s).  Following such interview(s), the Council will
certify the same at its next regular schedule meeting.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 7:45 pm.
All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

