1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 10, 2018

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, September 10,
2018 at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Mr. and Mrs. Gary Christie, Executive Director, Region 2000; Jeff Elder,
Facilities Director; Carlton Duck and Derek Norfield, Alive Media TV; Nathan Simpson,
Information Technology Technician; Bob Sayre, Don Jones, Tom Hart, News & Advance;
Freelance reporter, Times Virginian; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town
Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Mr. Gary Christie, Executive Director, Region 2000 Local Government Council thanked the
Town for its continued participation and provided an update on activities of Region 2000.  There
will be a reception on Thursday, October 18, 2018 featuring the Chamber of Commerce from
Columbia, SC regarding River Tourism and Economic Development opportunities.  The Region
2000 Local Government Council will be seeking a name change – back to its original name, 50
years prior – Central Virginia District Planning Commission.  This change will enable them to
better brand themselves.  They continue to work on the Meadowlark grant, work with
Appomattox County regarding the tornado recovery and continue to work with the Town of
Pamplin and the water tower refurbishment.  The Community Economic Development Plan has
been approved at the federal level.  The Hazardous Mitigation Plan is on schedule to be
completed by 2020.  They continue to work with the Soil and Water Conservation District water
improvement plan.  They have hosted two (2) training opportunities.  An investment opportunity
with the General Assembly to provide an environmental assessment and rehabilitation for better
use of the Central Virginia Training Center property in Amherst County.  Finally, Ben Bowman
with the Workforce Development office will attend a meeting with you later in the year.  He was
unable to attend tonight.

There were no questions and Council thanked Mr. Christie for attending and providing the
update.

Mayor’s Comments:
None

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 10, 2018

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. J. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for September 10, 2018 by moving the citizen comment period between Unfinished
Business and New Business and tabling NB #4 – Consideration of resolution to amend the FY
2019 Budget for the Town of Appomattox for the carry forward of funding for incomplete FY
2018 projects to the September 25, 2018 Council Workshop meeting.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

Public Comment Period:
Mr. Bill Jamerson spoke to Council regarding NB #3 on the agenda.  Mr. Jamerson is in support
of the Appomattox Tourism Committee and believes their request for $8,000 from the Town is a
modest request.  This is a volunteer group working very hard and this is a pretty inexpensive
alternative to the tourism department.  Also, next year, he would recommend/suggest the Town
consider an annual donation of $12,000 - $15,000.  Mr. Jamerson also reminded Council they
need to realize the income and other benefits of this tourism committee for other businesses.

New Business:

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to approve the name
change request by Region 2000 Local Government Council to Central Virginia Planning District
Commission.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to accept the FY 2017
annual audit of the Town of Appomattox by Brown, Edwards & Company, LLP.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to recommend to the
Town of Appomattox Economic Development Authority to fund (pay) the $8,000 request of the
Appomattox Tourism Committee, making sure all businesses are included in the marketing
initiative.  All member present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to award the Plant Drive
Sewer Extension project to George E. Jones & Sons for $52,000.00.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to amend the Fats,
Oils and Grease Program, specifically the Procedures for Grease Traps that Fail Inspection.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 10, 2018

Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following:

➢  The Community Meeting planned for Thursday, September 13, 2018 at the Train Depot

has been postponed due to the impending weather conditions of Hurricane Florence.  One
of the primary presenters would have been traveling from Savannah, Georgia.  Also,
possible pow attendance due to the hurricane is a concern.

➢  On September 19, 2018 he will be attending a meeting hosted by the Virginia Department

of Transportation regarding the Route 24 and 131 Smart Scale project.

Council Concerns:
Mr. T. Garrett advised that first responders participated in flying the Ground Zero Freedom Flag
at the Courthouse Square on Monday, September 10, 2018 for 9 minutes and 11 seconds.

Mayor Harvey reminded Council of the September 11, 2018 ceremony at the Courthouse Square
at 9:00 a.m.

Mr. J. Garrett would like to host a Town Employee Appreciation Day with a picnic served by the
Council for town employees and their families.

Ms. Spiggle expressed her confidence in Mr. Elder and the Public Works employees in preparing
for Hurricane Florence.

Mrs. Puckette thanked staff for loading emergency preparedness material to the Town’s
Facebook page.  She encouraged everyone to get prepared for the storm.

Ms. Spiggle thanked the Fire Department, as she knows they are also ready to go.

Mayor Harvey reminded Council of the Free Movie Night at the Courtland Festival Park on
Friday, September 14, 2018.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Council Member Boyce, seconded by Council Member T. Garrett, Council voted
to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950,
as amended, for the purpose of performance and salaries of a specific public employee of any
public body, specifically Employee A.

Vote:
J. Garrett – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 10, 2018

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Puckette made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Spiggle and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:
J. Garrett – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council adjourned at 9:05 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

