ref: reel_02_0761
date: 1974-07-15
content: A meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, July 15, 1974 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Those members present were: Mr. R. C. Hubbard, Mrs. C. H. Robinson, Mr. Burke Guill, Mr. Marvin House, Mr. T. E. Conner, and Mr. Ronald Spiggle.

Mayor Pack welcomed the new members of Council and distributed a copy of the committee assignments (a copy is enclosed and made a part of these minutes).

Mr. Hubbard made the motion seconded by Mrs. C. H. Robinson to accept the Building and Property Committee's recommendation to co-sponsor a Historic Appomattox Railroad Day Festival under the terms and conditions recommended by the Building and Property Committee in minutes dated June 25, 1974. Ayes 5 Nays 0

Vernell Mitchell appeared before Council requesting permission to connect three mobile homes to the "Town" water and sewer systems. The matter was referred to the water and sewer committee for their recommendation.

Mr. Conner brought up the matter of the Highway Department drainage structure located on Isbell Street. Council requested that Mr. Slagle seek to have the Highway Department correct the situation.

Mr. House made a motion seconded by Mr. Spiggle to request Mr. Slagle to work with the Highway Department in improving the drainage pattern around Fleshmans Street. Ayes 5 Nays 0.

Council expressed its desire to intervene on behalf of Mrs. Lula Goodrich to seek to have a damage claim satisfied involving her electrical service.

Mayor Pack referred the matter of revising the water and sewer policies and the water rate structure to the responsible committees.

Mayor Pack referred the matter of drafting an ordinance regulating dust, noise, light and other nuisances to the "Property, Recreation and Health Committee.

Ronnie Spiggle and Mrs. Calvin Robinson were nominated for the position of vice-mayor. Mrs. C. H. Robinson won by a 3 to 2 vote.

Local government radio communications was referred to the Fire Committee for their study and recommendation.
chunk_id: 20212
record_id: 1232
page_number: 1

