# REGULAR MEETING – June 14, 2004

Page 11 of 12

Le

Bool

%

Page 11 of 12
June 14, 2004

USE OF SERVICE
The new service applicant is expected to begin use of water within thirty (30) days from the date
of which such service is made available. Therefore, billing will commence at the end of this.
thirty-day period in accordance with prescribed rates, terms and conditions,

QUT-OF-TOWN CUSTOMERS
For all out-of-town customers, the above rates and charges shall be multiplied by a factor of 1.5.

The Town of Appomattox reserves the right to review each request or service and evaluate both the.
requested service requirements and available system well and storage capacity. Appropriate management
of available system resources. will be exercised by the Town Couneil with respect to new connections.

The Town of Appomattox reserves the right to institute any and all measures deemed necessary in the event
of a natural disaster, emergency, drought or other conditions which impacts on the water system. All
measures considered will be as reasonable as possible. Generally residential customer service, although it
may be curtailed, will be given highest service priority, +

Availability fees to be determined on the basis of equivalent residential connections and the equivalent

_residential availability charge.

BE JT RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the Water and Sewer Policy listing
for 2004-2005 is hereby adopted, effective July 1, 2004 and shall be certified by the Clerk

of Council and maintained as an archive document with the official minutes of the Town Council of
Appomattox, Virginia,

Adopted this 14" day of June, 2004,
All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mitchell, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry,
Council voted to accept the terms of the Police Agreement for July 1, 2004
through June 30, 2005. All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember
Lawson, Council voted. to amend and reenact Section 70-198 of the Code of the
Town of Appomattox, the amended and reenacted section. referring to the
disposal cost for residential waste. All members present voting aye. Motion
carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Bennett, seconded by Councilmember
McDearmon, Council voted to allow the Town Manager to execute the Scope of
Work for Appomattox County/Town Water Supply Project by Région 2000
Regional Commission. All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

The Town Manager informed Council of the “no parking” on Main Street that
continues to be a problem near Mr. Lawson’s building. David and Sheriff Staples
are working on this problem.