ref: reel_03_0734
date: 1980-08-11
content: Page 1
Regular Meeting - August 11, 1980

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, August 11, 1980 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: T. E. Conner, Ray Noble, R. C. Hubbard, T. W. Lawson, and W. H. Carson. Absent - R. L. Bass.

Also present were: Jeanne Stanley, Merry Wright, Wilton Burgess, H. G. Lawson, Steve Poole, Bill Sherrod, Judy Volturo, W. R. Britton, Jr., Town Manager and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Noble, the Agenda was approved as presented with one addition - Stop Sign on Lee-Grant Avenue and Burke Street- and all members voted aye.

The minutes of the regular meeting on July 14, 1980 as presented were approved on a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, and all members voted aye.

Mrs. Jeanne Stanley, Merry Wright, representing John Mosby Inn, and Wilton Burgess, Quik-E-Foods, appeared before Council to request permission to sell Beer and Wine on Sundays, in the Town of Appomattox.

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. Noble, to advertize for two weeks the Town's intention to amend the Town ordinance on the Sale of Beer and Wine to allow Sunday sales beginning at 12:00 Noon, on Sunday until 11:00 P.M.

At this time a clarification of the motion was needed.

Conner-aye Noble-aye Lawson-aye Carson-nay Hubbard-nay
Motion carried by a 3 to 2 vote.

Mr. H. G. Lawson appeared before Council to request a Conditional Use Permit for his Apartment House on Dogwood Street.

Mr. Lawson made the motion, seconded by Mr. Carson, that a conditional Use permit be granted to Mr. H. G. Lawson's Apartment House on Dogwood Street, subject to the execution of an agreement between the Town of Appomattox and Mr. Lawson dated October 24, 1979.

Conner -aye Carson-aye Lawson-aye Noble-nay Hubbard-nay
Motion carried by a 3 to 2 vote.

Mr. Steve Poole, Businessman, appeared before Council on behalf of himself and Marshall Goin, to request that the two acres on the southeast corner of Route 460 be rezoned from M-1 Industrial to B-1 Business.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to refer Mr. Poole's request to the Appomattox Planning Commission for their study and recommendations, and all members voted aye.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, the Financial Statement for July 1980, was accepted by Council and all members voted aye.
Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20807
record_id: 1827
page_number: 1

