ref: reel_03_0735
date: 1980-08-11
content: Regular Meeting - August 11, 1980

Mr. Carson reported that the Street Committee had gotten together and they would like to recommend to Council that a 7000 lumen Street Light be placed at Dr.'s Smith and O'Brien office.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to have a 7000 lumen Street light installed at the first pole on Oakleigh Avenue at the Town's expense, adjacent to Dr's Smith and O'Brien's office.

Conner-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Carson-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried.

Mr. Britton was requested to prepare copies of the rough draft of the Noise Control Ordinance and present them to Council for their study.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to table items 2-3,and 5 of Old Business on the Agenda, until the next regular meeting, and all members voted aye.

A copy of the 'Police Policy and Procedures' as drawn up by the Police Committee was presented to Council for their approval.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to accept the 'Police Policy and Procedures' as drawn up by the Committee and make this a part of the permanent records. (See Council file dated August 1980)

Conner-aye Carson-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to authorize Mr. Britton to obtain bids for the Cathodic Protection on the Water Tank and bring the bids back to Council for their approval.

Conner-aye Carson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

It was the general consensus of Council to not pursue the E.P.A.'s grant for recreational funds at this time.

The Census Review was presented to Council for their information. If Council wishes we can dispute the figures but time and money, and work would be involved.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to have all streets in Town whether State owned or Town owned, checked for stop signs and signs be installed if needed.

Carson-aye Conner-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried.

Mr. Conner, as Chairman of the Property Committee, requests that each Councilman make recommendations on any property that they feel is needed by the Town of Appomattox for budget purposes.
chunk_id: 20808
record_id: 1828
page_number: 1

