ref: reel_03_0548
date: 1979-12-17
content: Mr. Britton reported on the Committee's recommendations for a Noise Ordinance. Some of the main items for concern were location, administration, procedures, decibel limits, time span, and penalties. The Committee can have the proposed ordinance drawn up for Council's review at the next meeting.

Mr. Bass made the motion, seconded by Mr. Conner, to accept the recommendation of the Committee and to have a proposed Noise Ordinance drawn up and brought back to Council to review and decide whether it should be advertised for two weeks.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Gordon-aye Hubbard-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Conner reported that the Property Committee met and they have recommended that the Town purchase a 21 Flatbed Dump from Lawson Ford, Inc. at a price of $13,800.00. Their recommendation also includes the use of the balance of Revenue Sharing Funds and budget the remainder for 1980.

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. Carter, to purchase the 21 Flatbed Dump as recommendation by the Property Committee at a price of $13,800.00.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Hubbard-nay Bass-nay Gordon-nay
Motion defeated on a 3-2 vote against the purchase.

Mayor Spiggle presented a request from the Primary School to have a flashing-type school sign installed on Ferguson Street denoting a 'School Zone'.

Mr. Carter made the motion to send a resolution to the Highway Department to request that two flashing-type signs be installed on Ferguson Street to denote the 'SCHOOL ZONE', and seconded by Mr. Hubbard.

Conner-aye Bass-aye Carter-aye Hubbard-aye Gordon-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to remove the $500.00 of Revenue Sharing Funds budgeted to Police Dept. and place it in the General Fund to be used for multi-purpose uses.

Conner-aye Bass-aye Carter-aye Hubbard-aye Gordon-aye
Motion carried.

In accordance with Section 2.1-344, of the Virginia State Code, the Mayor called for an Executive Session to discuss personnel problems.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion, seconded by Mr. Conner to go into Executive Session, and all members voted aye. Motion carried unanimously.

The Mayor recalled the meeting after the Executive session.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to add to the 1980 Budget in Fire Department, Payroll, 2501, the amount of $1,182.00.

Conner-aye Bass-aye Carter-aye Hubbard-aye Gordon-aye
Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20685
record_id: 1705
page_number: 1

