—
i

Recessed and Reconvened - March 23, 1998

The recessed and reconvened meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on
Monday, March 23, 1998 at 7:30 PM with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: R. L. Bass, Rick Pack, Joyce Bennett, Steve Lawson,
Norman Mayberry, and Marvin Mitchell.

Others present were: William Phillips, Town Attorney, David T. Garrett, Jr., Supt.
of Public Works, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Norman Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to accept
the recommendation of the Town’s Engineer Hurt & Profitt, Inc. and award the bid for the
Virginia Avenue Project to George E. Jones & Co, at a contract price of $76,142.00.

Bass-aye Lawson-aye Mitchell-aye Mayberry-aye Pack-aye Bennett-aye
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to approve the
addition of of the waterline construction on Jones Street in accordance with the Health

Department’s requirements for the Meadowlark Project and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Pack, Council voted to approve the purchase
of the 1988 Dump Truck for Concord Truck & Tractor at a not to exceed figure $3000.00

after the insurance adjustments and salvage payments, and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to purchase two Raco

Phone Dialers at 1710.00 a piece for the pump stations at Shoppes at Appomattox and
all those present’voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mrs Joyce Bennett, Council voted to enter into
a purchase agreement with Mickey C. & Sandra Martin at a price of $37500.00 for
enlarging the Town Storage Lot contingent upon a survey, title search, and that the “mutual
zone” referred to on the plat be determined as belonging to the Town.

Bass-aye Lawson-aye Pack-aye Mayberry-aye Mitchell-aye Bennett-aye Motion carried,

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council voted to move the DMV

office back into its original room, remodel the office area, and all those present voting
aye. Motion carried. os

29D

