Page 2 of 3 ; |
Council Minutes
March 9, 1998

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to pass a resolution
of Support for the Tax Credit - Dogwood Rural Associates and all those present voting
aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr, Mayberry, seconded by Mr, Bass, Council voted to send the Caldwell
flooding problem to the Street Committee for their Study and recommendations and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council voted to have Ms. Beth McDaniel
prepare a Salary Pay Scale/Classification Plan for the Town at a cost of $1,000.00.

Bass-aye Lawson-aye Pack-aye Mayberry-aye Mitchell-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to keep the
Burgundy Town Car, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to approve the
new and revised “Surcharge for Sewer” as presented by the Sewer Committee. See l
attached copy.

Bass-aye Lawson-aye Mayberry-aye Pack-aye Mitchell-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Bass, Coucnil voted to accept the:
Leachate from Prince Edward County as presented and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried. (See attached copy).

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to adopt
the following resolution regarding condemnation proceedings on the CDBG Grant,
and all those present voting aye. “seghe

oa ars ais we ie eid
Bass-aye Pack-aye Mitchell-aye Mayberry-aye Lawson-aye
Motion catried. (See attached copy)

On a motion by Mr. Latison, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council: ‘voted to to adopt the Ee BG
following resohition di’ the ‘ourchases of goods and services °Y the Town, and all those
present voting aye. Motiop, carried. See the attached copy. .., 1 fh - anit 7 Ge
On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by ‘Mir. Mayberry, Council voted to appoint

Steve Lawson to the 460 Corridor - Water Study Commission, and all those :

present voting aye. Motion carried.
