ref: reel_02_0679
date: 1961-01-01
content: Conner reported on the Ball Park and requested the Council to do something about the seating arrangements. Mr. Conner requested that some cost estimates. Mr. Slagle requested to ask the Board of Supervisors to contribute 50% of the costs of the operation and maintenance of the Ball Park.

Mr. Slagle reported that he had drawn up a sketch of the improvements to the intersections at Church Street and Lee-Grant Avenue and turned this over to the Building & Grounds Committee at Liberty Baptist Church for their consideration since property must be acquired from the Church for the project.

Mr. Slagle requested that the Town enter into condemnation proceedings for the property on Route 1009 to acquire the right-of-way if Mr. Bedford Whish will agree to pay all costs involved, since he has been unsuccessful in acquiring this property. If the right-of-way is acquired then the Town can turn it over to the Highway Department to take into the system.

Mr. Pack reported that he had went before the Board of Supervisors and requested that they adopt a resolution to request the State to extend Route 1009 to State Route 24. If Route 1009 is extended it will provide direct access from Route 24 to Appomattox. He requested that the Council adopt the resolution. Mr. Holland made the motion and Mr. Hubbard seconded to adopt the following resolution:

WHEREAS, Appomattox County Route 1009 immediately to the North and East of the Town of Appomattox extends within approximately one thousand feet of State Route 24;

AND WHEREAS, Such road if extended to State Route 24 will serve approximately twenty (20) homes and will provide direct access from State Route 24 to the Town of Appomattox;

AND WHEREAS, The owner of the majority of this land has agreed to donate the right-of-way for such road;

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, That the Appomattox Town Council requests that the Virginia Department of Highways extend County Route 1009 to State Route 24 provided that the entire right-of-way can be acquired.

Motion carried.

Mrs. Robinson requested that the first 2 weeks in April be designated as Annual Clean-up. The Council so designated.

The Council agreed to authorize the preparation of a certificate of appreciation for the work performed by the Appomattox County High School Masonary class on the Emergency Communications Building. Mr. Slagle will draw up the certificate.
chunk_id: 20140
record_id: 1160
page_number: 1

