ref: reel_02_0667
date: 1970-01-01
content: Mayor Pack requested that the issue of small private water systems around the 'Town' perimeter be referred to the Appomattox County Planning Commission for their recommendation. He further requested that the Town's entire water and sewer policy be studied and revised where necessary by the Water and Sewer committee.

Mr. Slagle reported that Well Lot 8 and the adjacent lot has been purchased by the Town at a total cost of $7300.00.

A letter from William Willis and Ashby Wright withdrawing their application to operate an amusement center in the building formerly occupied by Wilbun's Store on Harrell Street in the Town of Appomattox, was entered in the minutes.
Mr. Slagle reported that Mr. Allen Franklin is in the process of buying the building to operate his business of Plumbing and Heating supply. The operation of a plumbing and electrical supply in property zoned B-1 requires a conditional use permit. The Council has no objections to the intended use with the condition that he keep the area clean and that he keep his supplies within the building.

Mr. Slagle reported that the new radio communications building is in operation.

The Memorial United Methodist Church requested Council's reaction to their proposal to install chimes. Council had no objections if the chimes were not too loud.

Mr. Slagle reported that the Town could receive 30% of the costs of constructing the lagoon under a new Act of the 92nd Congress. He has gathered the necessary papers and maps together and sent them to the State Water Control Board.

Mr. Slagle reported that it was necessary to define future water and sewer service areas in order to develop a reasonable rate structure. After discussing the matter it was decided that the Town of Appomattox for the purposes of this rate structure would limit the service areas to those points located within 0.5 miles from the existing Town boundaries.

Mr. Slagle reported Cloverhill Manufacturing Co. wants to construct three homes on Bethel Street. Sewage is not to drain to the lots without pumping into the Town's existing line. After some discussion it was decided that the Town of Appomattox would install the line if the users will equitably contribute toward the costs of such line.

Council ordered the outdated bills for water connections, sewer connections, and other miscellaneous costs destroyed.

On a motion by Conner, Mr. Slagle was authorized to receive bids and purchase a backhoe with the Revenue Sharing.
chunk_id: 20129
record_id: 1149
page_number: 1

