1  Special Call Council Meeting
Monday, March 30, 2009

The  Appomattox  Town  Council held  a  Special  Call  Council  meeting  on  Monday,  March
30,  2009  at  4:30  pm  at  the  Appomattox  Municipal  Building,  210  Linden  Street,
Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Bryan J. Baine, N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, John
T. “Plicky” Williams, Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.

Others present:  Charles Garrett, Chief Wastewater Operator; Jeff Elder, Utility Director
and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  Mayberry,  seconded  by  Councilmember  McDearmon
and with all members present voting “aye”, Council voted to add the following items to
the agenda:

1.  Martha Street waterline replacement
2.  Fire Flow test on Highway 460 near the Shoppes of Appomattox
3.  Water & Sewer (Utilities) at the Thomasville property on Highway 460.

Motion carried.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  Williams,  seconded  by  Councilmember  Mayberry,
Council  voted  to  award  the  construction  bid  for  the  SBR  Modifications  to  Fielder’s
Choice.
Vote:    Baine  –  aye,  Mayberry  –  aye,  McDearmon  –  aye,  Williams  –  aye,  Jamerson-
Scruggs – aye, Carter – no.  Motion carried 5 to 1.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  Williams,  seconded  by  Councilmember  Mayberry,
Council voted to allow Hurt & Proffitt to conduct a fire flow test within close proximity to
the  property  owned  by  Thomasville  –  Tax  Map  No.  64A1  (A)  3.    All  members  present
voting aye.  Motion carried.

Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs excused herself from the meeting at 6:20 pm.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  McDearmon,  seconded  by  Councilmember  Mayberry,
Council  voted  to  convene  in  Closed  Session  pursuant  to  Section  2.2-3711(A)29  of  the
Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for  the  purpose  of  discussion  of  the  award  of  a
public contract involving the expenditure of public funds and discussion of the terms or
scope of such contract, where discussion in an open session would adversely affect the
bargaining   position  or  negotiating  strategy  of  the  public  body,  specifically  being
discussion  of  four  proposals  for  engineering  services  under  the  Town’s  basic  ordering
agreement.

Vote:    Baine  –  aye,  Mayberry  –  aye,  McDearmon  –  aye,  Williams  –  aye,  Carter  –  aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – absent.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that
to  the  best  of  each  members  knowledge:  (1)  Only  public  business  matters  lawfully
exempted  from  open  meetings  requirements  by  Virginia  law  were  discussed  in  the
closed  meeting  to  which  this  certificate  resolution  applies,  and  (2)  only  such  public
business  matters  as  were  identified  in  the  motion  convening  the  closed  meeting  were
heard, discussed or considered by this council.

2  Special Call Council Meeting
Monday, March 30, 2009

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – absent.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  Williams,  seconded by  Councilmember  Carter,  Council
voted to select the firms of Anderson & Associates, Draper Aden, Mattern & Craig and
WW Associates for Engineering Services under the Basic Ordering Agreement.

Vote:    Baine  –  aye,  McDearmon  –  aye,  Williams  –  aye,  Carter  –  aye,  Mayberry  –  no.
Jamerson-Scruggs – absent.  Motion carried 4 to 1.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  Baine,  seconded  by  Councilmember  Carter,  Council
voted  to  authorize  Mayor  Harvey  to  execute  the  Basic  Ordering  Agreement  for
Engineering Services for the Town of Appomattox.

Vote:    Baine  –  aye,  Mayberry  –  aye,  McDearmon  –  aye,  Williams  –  aye,  Carter  –  aye.
Jamerson-Scruggs – absent.  Motion carried.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  Carter,  seconded  by  Councilmember  Williams,  Council
voted to terminate the 1996 Letter of Agreement between the Town of Appomattox and
Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. by providing Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. a thirty day written notice effective
March 31, 2009.

Vote:    Baine  –  aye,  Williams  –  aye,  Carter  –  aye,  Mayberry  –  no,  McDearmon  –  no.
Jamerson-Scruggs – absent.  Motion carried 3 to 2.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  Mayberry,  seconded  by  Councilmember  Williams,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of
Virginia,  1950,  as  amended,  for  the  purpose  of  discussion  of  the  performance  of  a
specific public employee of the Town, specifically being Employee A.

Vote:    Baine  –  aye,  Mayberry  –  aye,  McDearmon  –  aye,  Williams  –  aye,  Carter  –  aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – absent.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that
to  the  best  of  each  members  knowledge:  (1)  Only  public  business  matters  lawfully
exempted  from  open  meetings  requirements  by  Virginia  law  were  discussed  in  the
closed  meeting  to  which  this  certificate  resolution  applies,  and  (2)  only  such  public
business  matters  as  were  identified  in  the  motion  convening  the  closed  meeting  were
heard, discuss, or considered by this council.

Vote:    Baine  –  aye,  Mayberry  –  aye,  McDearmon  –  aye,  Williams  –  aye,  Carter  –  aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – absent.

On  a  motion  by  Councilmember  Williams,  second  by  Councilmember  Carter,  Council
voted to adjourn at 7:15 pm.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette,
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey,
Mayor

