1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
June 29, 2021

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, June 29, 2021, at 6:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Conner, presiding.

Town Council present:  Aaron Tilton, Nathan A. Simpson, Timothy W. Garrett, James J. Boyce,
Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Chad Hodges, Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Jeff Westbrook, Times Virginian
Newspaper; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Kim Ray,
Treasurer; and Roxanne Casto, Clerk

The meeting was also broadcast LIVE on the Town of Appomattox Facebook page and public
phone participation through FreeConferenceCall.com was available.

Mayor Conner called to order the Council Workshop meeting.

Discussion Items:
Mr. Simpson requested the discussion of water capacity and feasibility of expanding capacity
using existing Town wells.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to hold a public hearing
to amend the FY 2022 Water Fund budget for the Town of Appomattox by increasing
expenditures by $150,000.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Note:  Mr. Boyce left the meeting at 6:55 p.m.

Council requested an action item on the July 12, 2021, Council Agenda to discuss holding a
public hearing on out-of-town water rates.

Council Comments:

Ms. Spiggle reminded everyone of the July 3 Fireman and Fireworks event.

Council Standing Committee Reports:
None

Staff Reports:
Mrs. Kim Ray, Treasurer provided the Treasurer’s Report for revenues and expenditures though
May 31, 2021.

Mrs. Casto, Clerk reminded Council of the Virginia Municipal League Conference planned for
October 3 – 5, 2021 in Leesburg, Virginia.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
June 29, 2021

Mr. Jeff Elder, Facilities Director reported that the Public Works crew would be working 7:00
a.m. – 3:30 p.m. the remainder of the week due to the extreme heat.

Mr. Shanaberger provided an update on the following items:

➢  The Town is expecting to receive the American Rescue Plan funding tomorrow and there

is a webinar tomorrow, June 30 as well.  Staff expects to learn more about the
opportunities to spend these funds.

➢  Work by staff continues on the USDA loan/grant for the Church Street Waterline

Replacement Project.

➢  Staff expects completion of the Request for Qualifications for the engineering and project

management services of the Town Depot exterior renovations.

➢  The July 3rd Fireworks are set for 9:30 p.m. near the Appomattox County High School.
➢  Mr. Fowler begins on July 1 as the part-time Zoning Administrator.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 7:15 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

