ref: reel_02_0270
date: 1952-07-29
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held in the Mayor’s office on July 29, 1952, with Mayor G. B. Buchanan presiding. The following members were present: Chas. F. James, J. E. Jamerson, C. F. Moses, Jr., J. T. Almond, and Mrs. C. H. Robinson. The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read. The Street Committee made a report on Lucy Street and recommended that it be scraped and graveled, at such time as the Town Manager can do it. Motion made by Chas. F. James seconded by J. T. Almond that the recommendation of the Street Committee be carried out. Motion carried. The Street Committee made a report on a new street and recommended that the Town take it over. If so, a 10 ft. right-of-way be given to the Town, and then it be maintained as the Town sees fit. Motion made by Chas. F. James, seconded by J. T. Almond that the Street Committee’s recommendation be accepted. Motion carried. The question was raised about Mr. W. T. Mayberry’s poor water service. Motion made by J. C. Caldwell, seconded by Chas. F. James, that Mr. Mayberry be charged for water used. Motion carried. The question was raised about the Police not being able to get warrants and bail for speeders and reckless drivers and other violators at night. On motion made by Chas. F. James, seconded by C. F. Moses, Jr., that these violators be taken to the Jail and let Mrs. Walter Conner write the warrants and fix the cash bail bond and the average fine for the offence and the duties of the Police be allowed the fee for writing the warrant and fixing the Bail Bond, which is $1.00 each. Motion carried. Sergeant S. J. Couch requested a street light be placed in front of Fred Spencer’s house. After some discussion a motion was made by Mrs. Calvin Robinson, seconded by C. F. Moses, Jr., that the street light be placed in front of Mr. Smith's house. Motion carried. The question of relocating lines from W. L. Burge’s on Court Street to E. T. Chulkin’s Service Station, and from Callie Moore’s corner on H. L. entire Appomattox Garment Co. was discussed. A motion was made by Chas. F. James, seconded by Mrs. Robinson that the property owners give the right of way and pay one-half of the Town cost for the Side Walks. Motion carried. The question was raised by the Town Manager of changing the parking lines on Main Street to a 15° angle instead of the present straight in parking. On motion made by G. E. Moses, seconded by Chas. F. James that the matter be taken up with the Highway Department and if agreeable to the Highway Dept. the Town Manager proceed to paint the parking lines. Motion carried. The question of sloping the greaserack at Bob Yancey’s Service Station in Harrell Street was raised again. On a motion made by J. E. Jamerson, seconded by Chas. F. James that it is hereby ordered that Lewis & McDearmon requesting Mr. Slope the grease rack within one week or the Town Force will do it and Mr. Beamon's place was received. Motion carried. Motion made by Chas. F. James seconded by C. F. Moses, Jr., that a refund of $5.00 be made to Chas. Hubbard, on over time imposed on him for parking on Harrell Street. Motion carried. There being no further business the meeting was adjourned to meet again at the regular meeting date of August 18, 1952.
chunk_id: 19754
record_id: 774
page_number: 1

