1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 11, 2022

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, October 11, 2022
at 6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Vice-Mayor Garrett presiding.

Members present:  James J. Boyce, Sr., Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette, Mary Lou G.
Spiggle, and Nathan A. Simpson.

Others:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Drew and Tiffany Dearing, Garrett Braun, Christi
Taylor, Brittani Edwards, Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry
McGhee, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Vice-Mayor Garrett called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America.

Mayor’s Comments:
None

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Mr. Garrett Braun, Ms. Christi Taylor and Ms. Brittani Edwards from Dominion Energy
appeared before Council to discuss an amendment needed to allow them to lay fiber for internet
service in the Town.  Essentially, Dominion Energy would be the “middle” man.

The representatives explained the process in detail.  Ms. Christi Taylor explained how the
franchise agreement written in the 80’s does not have the rights needed to move forward with
this project. Dominion Energy has offered a Memorandum of Understanding to add language to
further the broadband project.  Dominion Energy is already in a construction stage and is
expected to be complete by the end of the first quarter of 2023.  If the Town chooses not to sign
the MOU, it kills the project.  Dominion Energy would like to have a signed amendment by the
end of 2022.

Council thanked the individuals for attending and sharing this information.

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to accept the consent
agenda as presented for October 11, 2022.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business
None

Council Standing Committee Reports:
None

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 11, 2022

Citizen Comment:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. McGhee reported on the following items:

-  He has reached out to vendors, SWaM vendors, regarding the Town website.
-  Dominion Energy has completed the work order request for the LED streetlights.

Installation of the first 50 lights should begin soon.

-  VDOT is asking to replace pipe on Old Courthouse Road for the streetscape project.
-  He met with Rev. Small and law enforcement regarding fentanyl.  In a coordinated effort

the Town should consider creating a fact sheet, in person education, social media
development and multi-level education.

Mr. McGhee thanked those who got engaged with the drug education at the Railroad Festival
over the weekend.

Council Comment:
Mr. Boyce – none

Ms. Spiggle requested the Town reach out to Horizon Behavioral Health to get the word out
about fentanyl and drug use.

Mr. Simpson asked Mr. McGhee where the Town was with the generator bids.  He responded
that Mr. Elder had a couple of questions for the vendor.  Mr. Simpson asked for an updated on
the train depot.  Mr. McGhee responded he is expecting the project to be advertised by the end of
October.  Mr. Simpson asked if the documents were ready to be destroyed.  Mr. McGhee
explained this was an on-going project.

Mr. Simpson provided an update on the old Elementary school as he has spoken with the County
Administrator regarding the lease to won space by Mr. Boone for a welding booth.

Ms. Puckette thanked the members of Council for signing letters to Congressman Good, Senator
Warner and Senator Kaine regarding the drug problem in our country.  She also thanked Mr.
Boyce for stopping by the booth at the Railroad Festival.  She also thanked staff for getting the
banner on short notice.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at 7:05 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

