1  Appomattox Town Council

Joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop Meeting
September 26, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, September 26, 2017 at
6:00 p.m. which included a joint public hearing with the Appomattox Town Planning
Commission at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Council Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle,
Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent:  M. Erin Finch

Town Planning Commission members present:  Marvin H. Mitchell, S. L. Ferguson, Linda
Lipscomb, Roger Carson and Claudia Puckette.

Others present:  Bill Jamerson, Nathan Simpson, Jeff Elder, Facilities Manager; Clarence
Monday, Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and Roxanne Casto,
Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop meeting to order.

Chairman Marvin Mitchell called the Town Planning Commission meeting to order for the joint
Public Hearing.

Mayor Harvey opened the joint public hearing, a Request to Vacate the unopened portion of
Autumn Lane, such portion being identified as “0.320 Ac.” as shown upon a plat of survey entitled
“Composite Boundary Survey, 5.322 Acres Total, Drawn for Jamerson Real Estate, Inc.” made by
Michael Ray Goin, L.S., dated May 12, 2017, Revised August 21, 2017, and to be recorded in the
clerk’s office of the Appomattox County Circuit Court, which area remains an unopened road, and to
vacate part of the opened portion of Autumn Lane, such portion being identified as “0.102 Ac.,”
upon the plat aforesaid. The effect of such proposed vacation shall be to vest such title as the Town
of Appomattox may possess to the centerline of the portion of Autumn Lane so vacated, free and
clear of any rights of the public, but subject to the rights of the owners of any public utility
installations which have been previously erected therein, in accordance with the provisions of
Virginia Code Ann. Sec. 15.2-2274, equally in the owners of abutting properties. As all abutting
properties are owned by Jamerson Real Estate, Inc., the title to the 0.320 acre parcel and to the 0.102
acre parcel described above shall be vested in Jamerson Real Estate, Inc.

Mayor Harvey asked Council Members and Planning Commission members for questions.
There were no questions.

Mayor Harvey asked for Public Comments from the audience.  There were no comments.

Mayor Harvey closed the public hearing.

Chairman Mitchell closed the public hearing.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop Meeting
September 26, 2017

Update on the Christmas Event in Downtown Appomattox on Saturday, December 2, 2017
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to approve $280.00 for
trash pickup by Republic Services for the Downtown Christmas event on Saturday, December 2,
2017.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to approve renting two
(2) portajohns (1 – regular and 1 – handicap) to be placed in Courtland Field for the Downtown
Christmas event on Saturday, December 2, 2017.  Vote:  Garrett, McDearmon, Spiggle, Puckette
– yes. Conner – no.  Motion carried 4-1.

Discussion of a Request for Application for Water Outside Corporate Limits
Mr. Elder presented to Council a request to serve the Appomattox Christian Academy with
water.  The location is outside of the Town limits.  Appomattox Christian Academy would be
required to pay for their portion of the line.  Their portion is approximately 687 feet.  The Town
would like to further the project by looping the line back into 460/Confederate Blvd.  This
portion of line is 874 feet.  The Appomattox Christian Academy is estimating 500 gallons per
day of usage.

Town Council provided consensus to look at all the information to serve the property.

Staff Reports

Jeff Elder, Facilities Manager advised Council he has been working with Nathan Simpson,
Town’s Tourism Technology Technician regarding a “call system” which would make a call or
send a text message/alert to individuals of broken lines, boil notices, etc.

Council gave consensus to proceed with the initiative.

Kim Ray, Town Treasurer reported she attended a two-day training for collections.  Mrs. Ray is
planning to present trend data at the next workshop meeting.

Mr. Shanaberger, Town Manager updated Council on the following items:

-  Downtown Revitalization Grant application was not successful.  He will be reaching out

to the DHCD representative for feedback on the Town’s application.

-  Courtland Festival Park is progressing.  The grass and SOD will be in place in the next
few weeks.  There may be a need to water the grass and SOD.  Council provided
consensus to provide the water for the new grass and SOD as an in-kind donation. Mayor
Harvey reported that the foundation will take over the water meter once the park is open.

-  The Request for Proposal (RFP) for the depot project is nearly ready and will be

advertised next week.

-  The bid request for the Kiddie Park will be ready at the next meeting.
-  The Town’s Economic Development Authority has extended a $5000 incentive package

to Mr. Brod Pack to demolish and remove the old service station building on Confederate
Blvd.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Joint Public Hearing and Council Workshop Meeting
September 26, 2017

-  The Town’s EDA has invited the County’s EDA to their next meeting to hear a

presentation from Katie Conner with the Virginia Tourism Corporation.

Council Concerns:
Mr. Conner stated that there are several items that need to come to the front burner.  Those being
the Town Office Building renovations and the Depot.  Mr. Conner has been approached by
several businesses and citizens regarding animal waste.  Mr. Conner would like for staff to
research animal pet waste stations in town.

Mrs. Puckette thanked staff for all the hard work preparing for the Town picnic.  There was a
nice crowd this year.

Mr. Shanaberger announced that the Chrysler Car Club would be arriving in Town on Monday,
October 2, 2017 from Boone, NC.

Council gave consensus for Nathan Simpson to remove the pictures of Lindenburg from the
Town’s Facebook page.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adjourn at 7:10 pm.
All members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

