1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 14, 2016

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, March 14, 2016 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, Claudia G. Puckette and Steven T. Conner.

Others present:  Carlton Duck & Brian Moore, Alive Media TV; Daniel Puckette, Times
Virginian Newspaper; Ashlie Walter, News & Advance; Stacey Wilkes, Treasurer, Bill
Gillespie, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Regular Council meeting to order.

Mayor’s Comments:
Two weeks ago, Appomattox County was directly impacted by an EF3 Tornado near the
Evergreen area of Appomattox County.  The county has come a long way very quickly.  The
long range recovery planning has already begun.

The Town of Appomattox will be hosting “Spring Clean Up” March 28 – April 1, 2016 and
April 4 – 8, 2016.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to adopt the consent agenda
for Monday, March 14, 2016 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Old Business – none

New Business –

Committee Recommendations – none

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to appoint the following
members to the Rehab Board for the Greater Meadowlark Community Improvement Project:
Lonnie Hamlett, Building Inspector, Appomattox County; Lewis McDearmon, Council Member;
Paul Humbles, Neighborhood Representative; Brian Goldman, Rehabilitation Specialist;
Goldman & Associates; W. Scott Smith, Senior Planner, Region 2000 Local Government
Council; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director, Town of Appomattox.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

Town Manager’s Update – The sidewalk repair project will begin this week and be complete
within 60 days.  These are sidewalks located on Confederate Blvd to Church Street, Atwood
Street to Church and Highland and Court Street in several places.

The Region 2000 Business and Economic Development Alliance has moved from the Bank of
the James building into the Lynchburg Regional Chamber building on Memorial Avenue.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 14, 2016

Council Concerns – none

Closed Session –

On a motion by Council Member McDearmon, seconded by Council Member Garrett, Council
voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia,
1950, as amended, for the purpose of interviewing prospective candidates for the position of
Town Manager with the Town of Appomattox, specifically being prospective candidate D.

Vote:
Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Garrett made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLOVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member McDearmon and Council by the following
recorded vote adopted the motion:

Vote:
Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to adjourn at 8:20 p.m.
Vote: Garrett –yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

