1  Appomattox Town Council
Workshop Council Meeting
March 22, 2016

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop Council meeting on Tuesday, March 22, 2016
at 7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Claudia
G. Puckette and Steven T. Conner.

Absent:  M. Erin Finch

Others present:  Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Stacey Wilkes, Treasurer, Bill Gillespie, Town
Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Workshop Council meeting to order.

Mayor Harvey advised that Don Powers, the Archery Coach from Cornerstone Christian
Academy would like to invite Council them to participate with the students any Thursday from
3:30 – 4:30 p.m.

Downtown Economic Restructuring Study
Mr. Gillespie reported that the Town hosted a kick off meeting for the Appomattox Downtown
Planning Grant and the Economic Restructuring of Downtown Study on Monday, March 21,
2016.

The Town of Keysville report was provided for Council to review.  The study will identify what
the town has, what is being lost, what existing businesses need to be more successful.

The study will aid in the application for a $1.5 million dollar grant.

Employee Handbook
Mrs. Casto reviewed the proposed changes to the Employee Handbook with Council.

This item will be added to the April Regular Council meeting agenda for consideration.

Sewer Adjustment
Mr. Elder appeared before Council to discuss the request from the Lazer Car Wash for a sewer
adjustment.

After much discussion, Council was not interested in changing their policy regarding sewer
charges.  It offered (2) suggestions for the Lazer Car Wash to consider:

1 – At the cost of the customer, the Town could install a meter and meter setter on the
non-potable well, continuing to bill sewer at 100% amount of the metered water.

2 – The customer could install a new sewer meter.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Workshop Council Meeting
March 22, 2016

Closed Session
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the
purpose of discussing a prospective candidate for the position of Town Manager with the Town
of Appomattox, specifically being prospective candidate D.

Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes, Finch –
absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

The meeting was reopened to the public.

Councilmember McDearmon made the following motion:

Whereas, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this date,
pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the Virginia
Freedom of Information Act; and

Whereas, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council that
such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the best
of each members knowledge:  (1) only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed or considered by this Council.

The motion was seconded by Mr. Garrett and Council by the following recorded vote adopted by
the motion.

Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes, Finch –
absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn at 8:55
p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

