1  Regular Workshop Meeting

September 30, 2008

At the Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on September 30, 2008 at 7:00
pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council members Bryan J.
Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, John T. “Plicky” Williams, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Karl E.
Carter and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.   Also in attendance were Pete Zdgiebloski, Mary
Williams, Stephanie James, Debbie Baine, Bob White, Mike Lawless, Kelly Hitchcock, Bob
Hopkins, Mary Lou Spiggle, Nina Beasley, Chad Millner, Hazel Thomas, Gene Beverly, Lucy &
Ben Harvey, Sarah Watson, Marshall Goin, Cliff Harvey, Charles Garrett, Joseph Day, Barbara
Shelton, Barbara McLaughlin, Sarah Robertson, Beckie Nix, Carlton Duck, Frank Wright, Town
Attorney, David Garrett, Town Manager and Roxanne Paulette, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs and with all members
present voting “aye”, Council voted to amend the September 30, 2008 Workshop Agenda by
adding Item #11 – Consideration to grant the request of Thalhimer, developer for Wal-Mart to
waive the water and sewer availability fees for the Wal-Mart project, total cost is $89,145.00 and
to add a Public Comment Period.  Motion carried.

PUBLIC COMMENTS:
Peter Zdgiebloski – Church Street, Appomattox, Virginia
Mr. Zdgiebloski addressed council to voice his concerns of waiving the water and sewer
availability fees for Wal-Mart.  He said he did not think it was a great idea to waive the fees and
that Wal-Mart should be required to pay a hook up fee.

Marshall Goin – Appomattox, Virginia
Mr. Goin addressed council encouraging them not to give concessions to Wal-Mart.  Mr. Goin
asked the council members if they knew any one with certain first names who receive less than
$600 a month in social security and pay $140 for health insurance, they are from zip code 24522,
Appomattox, VA.  He then asked if they knew other first names who received much more than
that, they are from zip code 72712, Bentonville Arkansas.

Joseph Day – Meadowlark Subdivision, Appomattox, Virginia
Mr. Day addressed council stating “you can’t give Wal-Mart a break”.  As a citizen, my question
is what makes Wal-Mart so special that you have to treat them differently.  Wal-Mart can pay
your fees, take your community bone dry and we the citizens will still be here.

Kelly Hitchcock, Virginia’s Region 2000 Local Partnership – Local Government Council
appeared before Council to give an update on the Safe Routes to Schools program and the
Greenway Master Plan.

Bob White, Virginia’s Region 2000 Local Partnership – Local Government Council and Mike
Lawless, Draper Aden appeared before Council to give a preliminary update on the Water
Supply Plan.

Mayor Harvey thanked Mrs. Hitchcock, Mr. White and Mr. Lawless for their presentations.

2  Regular Workshop Meeting

September 30, 2008

On a motion by Mr. Williams, seconded by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs and with all members present
voting “aye”, Council voted to hold a public hearing on Tuesday, October 28, 2008 at 6:30 p.m.
to hear citizen comments regarding the purchase of land located in Appomattox County for the
Museum of the Confederacy.  Motion carried.

The Personnel Committee gave its standing committee report by inviting Mrs. Beckie Nix to
appear before Council and provide answers to questions that the committee may have missed or
to clarify any statements made at the Personnel Committee Meeting on Monday, September 29,
2008.

Mayor Harvey thanked Mrs. Nix for being available to answers questions and concerns from
council.

Additionally, Mr. Williams informed the council that the Personnel Committee had been
working on the job description and made minor changes.  The committee has no committee
recommendation at this time regarding the draft proposal as submitted by the Lynchburg
Regional Convention and Visitor’s Bureau or the posting of the Director of Tourism.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs and with all members present
voting “aye”, Council voted to move forward with a vote by placing this item on the Regular
Meeting Agenda of October 14, 2008.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. McDearmon and with all members
present voting “aye”, Council voted to send the creation of the Credit Card Policy to the Finance
Committee with a recommendation at the October Workshop Meeting.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. Mayberry and with all members
present voting “aye”, Council voted to send the item of the Stag Grant and Six Year Capital
Improvement Plan to the Finance and Utility Committees for a joint committee meeting.  Motion
carried.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. Mayberry and with all members
present voting “aye”, Council voted to send the item of the Town’s Organizational Flow Chart,
Mayor’s Responsibilities and Salary to the Personnel and Ordinance Committees for a joint
committee meeting.  Motion carried.

Mr. Baine requested Council discuss creating a website for the Town of Appomattox.  There is
$10,000 budgeted in the 2008/2009 Budget.  The council gave consensus for the Town Manager
to solicit volunteers from staff who would like to be involved and report back to Mr. Baine.

David Garrett, Town Manager and Charles Garrett, Chief Wastewater Plant Operator gave an
update on the chemical addition at the Trickling Filter Plant for metal treatment.  According to
reports, the treatment appears to working well.  Council thanked the staff for their hard work.

3  Regular Workshop Meeting

September 30, 2008

David Garrett reported that the Wal-Mart project is in jeopardy of coming to Appomattox.  The
immediate reason is due to cost.  In a statement from the developer, David Garrett reported that
if this project has to incur any additional expenses it may likely not come to Appomattox.  The
root of the problem appears to be a drainage pipe that needs to be enlarged.  Since the Town of
Appomattox does not own an apparent easement to the pipe, the adjacent property owner has
concerns of their own, primarily the access road between the two parcels.  The owner of the
shopping center desires shifting the existing access road 50 to 75 ft. toward the shopping center.
To accommodate this request, it would be necessary to relocate an existing 10” water main and
6” sewer line.  Both would need to be relocated.  Wal-Mart’s budget for this project has already
been exceeded twice.  Mr. Garrett reported to Council that previously through a Memorandum of
Understanding with Appomattox County, the Town of Appomattox has granted this type of
request for businesses located within the Industrial Park.  While those availability fees were not
waived on a case by case basis rather through a Memorandum of Understanding, Mr. Garrett
stated the request for Wal-Mart is reasonable.  Mr. Garrett expressed that Wal-Mart is important
to the community, providing retail development and over the long haul the Town of Appomattox
will get its money back through Meals Tax, Lodging Tax and other sources.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to grant the request of
Thalhimer, developer for Wal-Mart to waive the water and sewer availability fees for the Wal-
Mart project at a total cost of $89,145.00, due to the fact that we (town) has done it before
(waived fees), it (Wal-Mart) is an asset to this community and to offset expenses we (town)
would otherwise incur as a result of the project.  Vote:  Jamerson-Scruggs – aye, Carter – aye,
Williams – aye, McDearmon – aye, Mayberry – aye, Baine – no.  Motion carried 5 to 1.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Ordinance Committee – Mr. Carter advised that the Ordinance Committee continues to develop a
draft sign ordinance.  Two of the five citizens of the appointed committee are unable to serve.
The five member citizen advisory committee was created to work along side the Ordinance
Committee for the purposes of creating a Landscaping and Sign Ordinance for the Town of
Appomattox.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Mayberry and with all members voting “aye”,
Council voted to appoint Barbara Shelton to fill one of the vacancies on the citizen advisory
committee of the Ordinance Committee.  Motion carried.

Street & Property Committee -
On a recommendation by Chairman Baine, Street and Property Committee and with all members
voting “aye”, Council voted to install the requested street light on Second Street and the
requested street light on Lucy Street.  Motion carried.

The record will note that the request by Liberty Baptist Church to close Main Street on Saturday,
October 25, 2008 has been withdrawn at the request of the church.

STAFF REPORTS
Mr. David Garrett, Town Manager gave an update on various projects.

4  Regular Workshop Meeting

September 30, 2008

Mayor Harvey reminded the Council Members and citizens of the upcoming Historic
Appomattox Railroad Festival, October 11 & 12, 2008.

On a motion by Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Mr. Baine and with all members present
voting “aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 10:00 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

