Council Workshop – November 26, 2007

The Appomattox Town Council met on Monday, November 26, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. at the
Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor
Wilson, presiding.

Members present:  N. H. Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky”
Williams, Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs, Steven E. Lawson.  Absent:  Joyce B. Bennett.

Others present:  Stephanie James, Sarah Watson, Derek Norfield, Carlton Duck, David
Garrett, Jr., David Hawkins, Bill Burke and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Wilson called the Workshop meeting to order.

Unfinished Business – none

New Business – none

Committee Reports –
Ordinance Committee – Mr. Mayberry reported that the committee met on November 20,
2007 and completed the proposed amendments to the Town Charter.  Mr. Mayberry
presented those amendments to all council members.

Finance Committee – none

Street & Property Committee – Mr. Lawson reported that the slate is ready to be installed
on the floor in the backroom.  Council agreed by general consensus to be white light on
the big tree outside of the town office for Christmas this year.

Fire & Safety Committee – none

Personnel Committee – none

Utility Committee – There is a meeting scheduled for Thursday, November 29, 2007 at
5:30 p.m.

David Garrett, Town Manager reported on a letter received by the County planner
regarding Bryan Baine and Barry Morris whose terms on the Appomattox County
Planning Commission on December 31, 2007.  The Town Manger will check with the
two individuals to determine their willingness to continue to serve.  The item will be
placed on the December 10, 2007 Council Agenda for consideration.

Mr. Garrett reported that he will asked the Utility Committee to discuss the following
items at their meeting on November 29, 2007 – The water system, Water Rates, Metal
treatment at the Sewage Treatment Plants, engaging with a consulting firm for remedial
design at the SBR plant.

Mr. Garrett reported that the Department of Conservation and Recreation will meet with
him and Mayor Wilson on Tuesday, November 27, 2007 to discuss the Erosion and
Sediment Control Plan.

Mr. Garrett also reported that Well #9 continues to be out of service.  There is old piping
that Fred Jones Well Company is trying to remove in order to allow the well be videoed.
Well #9 appears to be experiencing mineral incrustation.  The geologist will continue to
test the well.  There is some possibility of damaging or losing the well while trying to
rehabilitate or reconstruct the well to minimize the mineral incrustation.

Town Attorney – none

Town Clerk – none

Town Treasurer – none

Director of Tourism – none

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon,
Council voted to recess and reconvene on Monday, December 3, 2007 at 7:00 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

The meeting adjourned at 7:23 p.m.

Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk

John L. Wilson, Mayor

