# WORKSHOP MEETING – April 23, 2002

Page 4 of 5

480

“Regular Meeting =May 13,2002 nee

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town nn Council was 1s held on Monday, May B, |
2002 at 7:30 PM with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: Norman Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, W, H. Carson,
Marvin H. Mitchell, Joyce Bennett, and Steve Lawson.

Others present: Bob Gay, Virginia Rural Water Association, Lisa Knott, Times-
Virginian, John L. Wilson, D. T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager, and Bobbie Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to approve the ~
Consent Agenda as submitted and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

- Mr. John L. Wilson, appeared before Town Council to present his amended requests for
the Downtown Celebrations and the Downtown Market. See attached copies.

- Mr. Bob Gay, Virginia Rural Water Association, came to make a presentation on his
organization and how they can help us. We already are using their services.

playground equipment at an approximate cost of $8,000.00 to refurbish the Town Park

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mrs. Bennett, Council voted to purchase some | |
and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council voted to table the
request for a Downtown Market, refer the matter to the Street & Property Committee, and
give them time to talk with the Merchants and get their opinions, then take up the matter
at the May 28" Workshop. i

Lawson-aye Bennett-aye McDearmon-aye Mitchell-aye Mayberry-aye Carson-aye |
Motion carried.

Ona motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to accept the
bid from Woodall & Lang for the Depot Roof Repairs in the amount of $33,278.00.

Lawson-aye Bennett-aye McDearmon-aye Mitchell-aye Mayberry-aye Carson-aye
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mrs. Bennett, Council voted to continue to pay
the Employee Only share of Health Insurance until September 20, 2002, the renewal date,
and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.