ref: reel_03_0653
date: 1982-03-08
content: Regular meeting - March 8, 1982

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, March 8, 1982, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, W. H. Carson, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, T. W. Lawson, and T. E. Conner.

Others present: F. T. Seargent, Bill Hunter, Bill Sherrod, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Agenda with the following additions: 7. O.B. F. T. Seargent Boundary proposals, 8. Gregory Street opening, and 7. N.B. Terrell Griffin, Appropriation bills in Legislature, was approved by Council.

The minutes of the last regular meeting were approved as submitted.

The Financial Statement for January 1982, was approved by Council.

Mr. Bill Hunter, appeared before Council to report on the progress of the sale of the Cable T.V. He reported that the negotiations are progressing.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to accept Mr. Seargent's proposals for the Town boundary line, first on Ferguson Street, Route 691, and second on Route 635 at the Overhead Bridge. (Maps of the proposed boundary line are filed in Council file dated March, 1982); and request the County of Appomattox to accept these proposals as the Corporate line.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Lawson-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to accept the proposal by Mr. Seargent that Gregory Avenue will be constructed to State specifications to be taken over by the Highway Department within 30 feet of the northerly line on Grove Street, that all utilities be provided to that same point, subject to the Town's specifications.

Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to accept the recommendations of the Planning Commission in regard to the newly acquired Town Boundary on Countryside Drive. (See copy in Council file dated March, 1982).

Carson-aye Conner-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Bass-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to amend a previous motion in the February minutes, 1982, regarding the acceptance of the Water Committee's recommendations, paragraph 8, to state that: "no more than 100-feet maximum".

Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20740
record_id: 1760
page_number: 1

