ref: reel_03_0654
date: 1982-03-08
content: On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to amend the amendment to a previous motion in the February minutes, 1982, regarding the acceptance of the Water Committees recommendation, paragraph 9, to state: "That the first 100 feet of water line will be run by the Town, and that the balance be borne by the Contractor in question." Carson-aye Conner-aye Lawson-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to table Item 5, Old Business until the next meeting, and all members voted aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to amend and re-enact the Town Code for an ordinance for Condemnation of Old Buildings. (see copy in Council file March 1982) Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to grant an adjustment on Lee-Grant Realty Co., Apt. 4, water bill for a faulty meter in the amount of $943.44 and refund the same to J. Robert Jamerson. Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to re-route the waterline on Route 24, for the National Park Service due to the By-Pass, at a not-to-exceed figure of $1000.00, work to be done by May-Hines & Associates, as part of the credit owed the Town by the Engineers for previous work. Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted that the rate for Council meetings(25.00) remain as is, for the coming year, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Noble made the motion, seconded by Mr. Conner, that Council support the more stringent requirements for Social programs and notify our representatives of our support. Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to accept the proposal by Childress & Mitchell for the plumbing improvements to the Depot. (See copy in Council file March 1982) Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20741
record_id: 1761
page_number: 1

