Page 20f 3
November 9, 1987

Mayor Spiggle gave a brief synopsis of-the preliminary meeting with

C. L.. Lewis Construction Company and he explained that we're at a point
where we can do no more. The Town has gotten the County to agree to a
Boundary Line Agreement, but it will still take time to obtain the

necessary approval] expecially as it has to go before the Justice Department.

He informed Council that we have just recently learned that Route 460,

is a limited access road, which means you can not put the water and sewer
lines in their right-of-way. -Easements will have to be obtained. The
Town-can use the power..of "Imminent:Domain".. This being we can file

a. suit, begin construction, and negotiate the costs down the road.

After a lengthy discussion between both developers, negotiations where
at a standstill.. The problem being. neither developer was able to agree.
on a time schedule, or who would install the lines, and who would pay
the pro-rata share.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr.:Carter, Council voted that
they would provide, water and sewer service for-the proposed shopping
centers, provided an agreement is signed that-should the Boundary Line
Adjustment fall through the "Centers" can not object ‘to an annexation
suit should the Town of Appomattox decide to-file in the future or the
developer will petition for a "friendly annexation suit.”

Bass-aye Carter-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye ~Webb-aye Mitchell-aye
Motion carried.

At this time the developers went into conference to discuss the matter
of. who will install the water and sewer lines, and Towh Council] went
on with the order of Business.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr, Mitchell, Council voted to
adopt the Following resolution for the Rescue squad regarding Aids.

WHEREAS, the Appomattox County Rescue Squad performs
vital and essential . services to the Community on a
voluntary basis; and

WHEREAS, these humanitarian services are often
performed under the conditions which can pose

a danger to the health and safety of the members oF
the Rescue squad; and

WHEREAS, one of the hazards faced by these volunteers .
is rending such services to. their fellow citizens is
exposure to the infectious diseases; and .

WHEREAS, the Mayor of the Town of Appomattox and the
Appomattox Town Council seek to minimize the risks
taken by the volunteer Rescue Squad personnel; and

