# WORKSHOP MEETING – January 28, 2003

Page 1 of 2

498

A Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Tuesday, January
28, 2003, at 7:30 PM with Mayor Spiggle presiding,

Those members present: Marvin Mitchell, C. Lewis McDearmon, Steve Lawson, W. H.
Carson, Joyce Bennett, and Norman Mayberry,

Others present were: William M. Phillips, Town Attorney, David T. Garrett, Jr., Town
Manager, Larry Mobley, Assistant Director of Public Works, Charles Garrett,
Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator, Tim Garrett, Fire Chief, Duck Martin, Roxanne
Paulette, Deputy Clerk, Marvin Hamlett, Times-Virginian, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to approve

the Consent Agenda with one addition of Item 9, Ordinance on Septage Receiving and all

those present, voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion Mr. Carson, seconded by Joyce Bennett, Council voted to approve the
“Travel Policy” as presented with the addition of the words “when approved” in the first
paragraph and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Steve Lawson, Chairman of the Property Committee, reported that the Fire Department
has made a request to construct a “temporary structure” to house the new Fire Track until
the new Building is constructed. This will be done at no costs to the Town of .
Appomattox. ; ; ‘ .

Mr. Lawson made the motion for the Council to approve the temporary construction for
housing the new fire truck at no cost to the Town, and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

-Mayor Spiggle informed Council that the Tourism Task Force would be hosting a dinner

meeting for Town Officials, County Officials, and others to present their tourism plan.
The cost would be approximately $600.00 and will be taken from Tourism in the General
Fund, .

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council approved the six dates
for the Friday Cheers that has been requested by the Chamber of Commerce, waive the
fees for these events, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

At this time David Garrett, Jr, Town Manager briefed Council on several items,

Also Larry Mobley and Charles Garrett gave a brief report of the Public Works and the
Wastewater Treatment Plant. ‘

Ona motion by Mr. Mitchell as Chairman of the Committee, presented the proposed
ordinance Section 70-198 to be added to the Town Code regarding the acceptance of
hauled Wastewater into the Town’s Treatment Plant.