ref: reel_03_0077
date: 1976-03-08
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, March 8, 1976 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were: R. C. Hubbard, R. C. Spiggle, T. E. Conner, and Burke Guill.

Guests present were Mr. Jerry Cozad representing Continental Telephone Company, Mr. Al Pleasants and Mr. J. A. Stafford representing Virginia Electric and Power Company (VEPCO), Mr. T. E. Pittman representing the Virginia Department of Highways and Mr. Hugh Mitchell, Mr. Freddy Godsey, and Mr. Addison Elder representing the Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

Mr. T. E. Pittman presented the following proposed agreement for Council's consideration:

The Town of Appomattox, State of Virginia, hereinafter referred to as Appomattox, and the Virginia Department of Highways and Transportation, hereinafter referred to as the Department, hereby agree as follows:

1. That the Department will prosecute a project for the improvement of 0.605 mile of Court Street within Appomattox from west intersection Route 460 to intersection T-691 and Main Street, designated as Route 131, Project 0131-006-101, C-501.

2. That Appomattox hereby agrees that the location, form, and character of informational, regulatory, and warning signs, curb and pavement markings, and traffic signals installed or placed by any public authority or other agency shall be subject to the approval of the Department.

3. Parking, where permitted, shall be parallel and adjacent to the curb. No double or angular parking will be permitted at any time.

4. At places where parking is prohibited, appropriate NO PARKING signs shall be erected. The size, design, and color of such signs shall conform to the standards as shown in the latest edition of the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.

5. Appomattox has agreed to furnish necessary rights of way, appraised by the Department at $31,468. Commission policy requires that the value of the right of way be credited toward the Town's share of construction cost, estimated to be approximately $7,823. Therefore, Appomattox will not be expected to pay any of the costs of storm sewers and sidewalks.
chunk_id: 20288
record_id: 1308
page_number: 1

