ref: reel_02_0593
date: 1971-07-19
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held in the Council Room on July 19, 1971 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack, presiding. 

Members present were: Mrs. Calvin Robinson, Burke Guill, T. E. Conner, M. L. Webb, Ivey Holland, and R. C. Hubbard. 

The meeting was opened with a prayer. 

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. 

Holland requested a list of people that owe back taxes. 

The Town Manager was instructed to write to the Highway Department and request that a study be made of accidents occurring on Highway 460 East of Town. 

Holland moved and Mrs. Robinson seconded that the new shopping center being built west of the Town in the triangle formed by Highways 460, 26, 24, and 131 be allowed to connect onto the Town sewer line leading to the lagoon on the following conditions. 

1. The Town will extend its sewer line to the corporate limits. 
2. That the shopping center owners build the line up Highway No. 131 and across the road in accordance with the Town's Engineer's specifications. 
3. Upon satisfactory completion and before the line is used the portion in the public right-of-way will be given to the Town at no cost to the Town. 
4. That this agreement covers the buildings as outlined to the Council, namely: a variety store, a drug store a grocery store, and a bank building. Permission to connect any future business to the Town system will have to be obtained from the Council before they will be allowed to be connected to the Town system. 
5. That an annual service fee be paid at the same rate that is charged other out-of-town customers. 
6. That an agreement to purchase water from the Town be entered into at the same time. 
7. That this permit must be accepted prior to October 20, 1971. 

Motion carried unanimously. 

A request from a member of the fire department for a new respirator was referred to the Fire Committee.
chunk_id: 20063
record_id: 1083
page_number: 1

