ref: reel_02_0465
date: 1967-07-17
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on July 17, 1967, at 7:30 P.M. in the Council Room, with Mayor H.E. Pack presiding. Members present were Mrs. Calvin Robinson, R.L. Bass, Burke Guill, Ivey Holland, R.C. Hubbard, and R.L. Wingfield. The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Chairman Bass of the Water and Sewage Committee reported that the Committee was in favor of keeping the ordinance passed on May 15, 1967, concerning the charges for hooking up trailers to the water and sewer lines. The Council concurred with him.

Wingfield moved and Bass seconded: That no charge be made to the Appomattox Hardware Co. for installing a tee in the new 10'' water line in Church Street for their use for a sprinkler system. Carried, 5 members for and Holland not voting.

Chairman reported that limited parking was needed on Church Street opposite the County Library. The Council felt that there should be one hour parking on the west side of Church Street between Confederate Blvd. and Highland Street between 9 A.M. and 3 P.M.

Mrs. Robinson reported that a telegram had been sent to Carlene Pitsenberger wishing her success in the 'Miss Virginia Pageant,' in the name of the Mayor and Council.

Wingfield moved and Bass seconded that: Effective with the September 1967 terms of the Council members, that the members be paid $10.00 for regular meetings and $5.00 for special meetings. Motion unanimously carried.

Guill moved and Bass seconded that: The chairman of the Street and Light Committee be given the right to order the erection of 5 street lights as they become necessary. Motion carried.

Holland moved and Hubbard seconded that: Resolve: That the Virginia Electric and Power Company be granted an easement for underground electric service to Well No. 6 on the lot on a new street and adjacent to the new apartment house now being built. Motion unanimously carried.

Mrs. Mary E. Turner requested the Council to permit her to erect directional signs for the Spring Mills Museum at Church Street and Evergreen Avenue.

The motion was made and carried: That the Virginia Department of Highways be notified that the Council approves the erection of either or both of these signs provided they meet the Department of Highways requirements.

The Town Manager was instructed to see if he can find a desirable tenant for the old Church Street Town office.
chunk_id: 19947
record_id: 967
page_number: 1

