# WORKSHOP MEETING – January 22, 2002

Page 2

425

Page 2 of3
Workshop Meeting January 22, 2002

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a property copy of this Resolution be presented to
the Moses Family.

Carson-aye Bennett-aye McDearmon-aye Mayberry-aye Lawson-aye
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to deny the
request by John Wilson to have surveillance camera’s installed downtown and all those

_ Present voting aye. Motion carried.

At this time Mayor Spiggle came in and took over the chair (7:30 PM).

"Jt was the general consensus of the Town Council, that David Garrett, Jr., as Town

Manager coordinate the holiday decorations for the downtown area,

Mayor Spiggle informed Council that he will be issuing a zoning permit to Mark

‘Drinkard for his gym in the Précision Bed Rail Building. The limits will be put on the
time of use, and parking places
On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to become a part

of the “VML/VACo Virginia Power Steering Committee” to negotiate for the purchase
of services from the utilities with adoption of the following resolution:

(see enclosed)

Lawson-aye Bennett-aye Mitchell-aye Mayberry-aye Carson-aye McDearmon-aye
Motion catried.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to approve the
amending of the Town Code to include Sections 74-86 through 74-90, relating to the
Board of Zoning Appeals, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

(see attached)
Ona motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to approve the

adoption of a “Wildlife Program in support of their proposal and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried:

' Council discussed the Tourism Committee as regards the appointment of members to

serve through suggestions by the Mayor, Council, and Citizens. Mayor Spiggle made a
list of over twenty-six names. He will begin calling and the first ten to agree to serve
will comprise the committee.