# REGULAR MEETING – January 16, 2002

Page 2


“Council Minutes = January 16, 2002. ~ - ae

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to adopt the
Resolution for Region 2000 Change in the By-Laws: ‘

WHEREAS, the Region 2000 Regional Commission has proposed a change to the
ByLaws, specifically Article VII — Section 1, in the makeup of the current Executive
Committee, and

WHEREAS, the Commission is proposing the Executive Committee be expanded in.
order that all localities may be represented on the Executive Committee , and

WHEREAS, the Commission is proposing to add those elected officials, or their
designated alternate who must be a Regional Commission Member, that are currently not
serving on the Executive Committee, and

WHEREAS, the current Executive Committee office structure will remain in place which
consists of the chair, vice chair, immediate past chair, past chair, treasurer, and secretary;
and .

WHEREAS, the Commission also proposed a change at its October 17, 2001 meeting to”
include under the Article VIL, Section la. That six (6) voting members of the Executive
Committee would constitute a quorum,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT the Town of Appomattox hereby
approves the proposed changes recommended by the Region 2000 Regional Commission
to Article VII —- Committees, Section I - Executive Committee and Section 1 a. to read as
shown on the attached:

Bennett-aye Mitchell-aye McDearmon-aye Mayberry-aye Carson-aye Motion carried.

Ona motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council voted to decline the
request from the Board of Supervisors to appoint a council member to serve on a
Committee to study the future of the Appomattox Elementary School and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council voted to approve the
request from Fred Jones for a water connection to-the Storage Building on Route 656, for
Fire Protection and restroom facility and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to table the
request for a street light for Bonnie Cunningham on Ethel Street until the workshop
meeting, to allow the Street Committee to meet and make a recommedation, and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.