ref: reel_02_0353
date: 1959-08-19
content: SPECIAL MEETING

A special meeting of the Town Council met in the Mayor's Office on August 19, 1959 at 6:00 o'clock P.M., with Mayor Chas. T. Moses, Jr., presiding.

The following members were present: G. E. Smith, C. Lewis McDearmon, T. Hunter Dickerson and John S. Grinels.

A Motion was made by G. E. Smith, seconded by John Grinels, that the following resolution be passed:

Resolution Authorizing Condemnation by the Town of Appomattox, Virginia, of the fee simple title owned by William W. Burke and Emily H. Burke, husband and wife, in a parcel of ground located on the easterly side of Wemly Lane, in said Town.

WHEREAS, Wemly Lane and Sunnydale Avenue, in the Town of Appomattox, Virginia, are separated by a strip of land approximately 125 feet in length which is owned by William W. Burke and Emily H. Burke, husband and wife; and

WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Council of said Town a public necessity exists for the construction of a public road on said strip of land to connect Wemly Lane and Sunnydale Avenue, and for the acquisition by said Town of the fee simple title to said property; and

WHEREAS, a bona fide, but ineffectual, effort has been made by the Town Council to acquire the fee simple title to said strip of land from William W. Burke and Emily H. Burke, the owners thereof, by purchase; and

WHEREAS, the total estimated necessary funds to compensate the owners of the fee simple title to said parcel of ground for the taking thereof is $300.00;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF APPOMATTOX, VIRGINIA:

1. That the Town employ the services of Arthur B. Davies, III, a licensed attorney practicing in the City of Lynchburg, Virginia, to represent the Town, and that he be and he hereby is authorized and directed to institute condemnation proceedings on behalf of the Town in the Circuit Court for the County of Appomattox, Virginia, in the manner provided by the Code of Virginia, to condemn the fee simple title and thereby acquire for the Town the fee simple title to the following described property, to-wit:

--- All that certain lot or parcel of ground, situate, lying and being in the Town of Appomattox, Virginia, lying between the southern end of Wemly Lane and the northern end of Sunnydale Avenue, and being enclosed in red lines on a plat dated April 30, 1959, made by W. Scott, C.L.S., attached hereto as a part hereof. Said property is more particularly described from said plat as follows:

Beginning at a point which is the southwest corner of Wemly Lane, being point 'A' on said plat; thence with the southerly terminus of Wemly Lane S. 52° E. 30 feet to the southeastern corner of Wemly Lane, being point 'B' on said plat; thence, with a new line, S. 36° W. 120 feet, more or less, to the northeasterly corner of Sunnydale Avenue, point 'C' on said plat; thence with the northerly terminus of Sunnydale Avenue N. 73° W. 31.1 feet to the northwesterly corner of said Sunnydale Avenue,
chunk_id: 19837
record_id: 857
page_number: 1

