Page 2 of 2 - October 14, 1985 193

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council requested
that a resolution be prepared to the Railroad Festival Board, Town
Employees, and the Times-Virginian, thanking them for a job well-done
and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Webb, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council adopted a
resolution to the Highway Department to request a Handicapped Parking
Space in front of the First Baptist Church on Court Street and all
those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to
approve the request from Dr. C. G. O'Brien and Tommy O'Brien to

grant a variance from the Subdivision Ordianance and all those present
voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted. to
grant a variance to Mr. Childress from the Subdivision Ordinance
for his property on Harrell Street and allow a house and lot to be
sold, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to
appoint S. E. Carter, as a representative of the Town, on the Hazardous
Waste Management Task Force, and all members present voting aye.

Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to
grant temporary and limited use of the Council Chambers to the
Veteran's of Foreign Wars and the Full Gospel Prayer Group, and all
members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to
go into Executive Session in accordance with Section 2.1-344 of the
State Code to discuss Personnel and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council reconvened
into regular session and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council voted to request
the Board of Supervisors to appoint the Town Manager as part of his duties
and responsibilities to serve as Recording Secretary for the Planning
Commission as a non-voting member.

Hubbard-aye Webb-aye Noble-aye Conner-nay Carter-aye
Motion carried on a 4 to 1 vote

There being no further business to come before Council, the meeting
adjourned.

) _ CLERK

BOBBIE H. (MULLINS
