ref: reel_03_0610
date: 1981-03-09
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, March 9, 1981, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: R. C. Hubbard, W. H. Carson, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, T. W. Lawson, and T. E. Conner.

Also present were: Ronnie Coleman, Roy Franklin, Bill Sherrod, W. R. Britton, Town Manager, and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Agenda was approved with the following additions: OLD BUSINESS - 5. Acro, Inc., 6. VEPCO- Street Light Installation; NEW BUSINESS - 3. Continual Resolution on Stop Signs for Virginia Department of Highways, on a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, and all members voted aye.

The minutes of the regular meeting, February 9, 1981, and the recessed meeting February 25, 1981, were approved with one correction to the recessed meeting on the 25th, instead of '1339.20 per man per year', it should state 'Total costs for the year,' as submitted.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, the Financial Statement was approved and all members voted aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Coleman and Mr. Franklin gave a progress report on the Cable System. They are now ready to begin negotiations with Mr. Diemler.

Council discussed VEPCO's new policy on the installation of Street Lights. They will be charging an installation charge for each street light. It was the general consensus of Council that this fee be discussed with VEPCO Officials before paying this fee.

The question of Business License Tax was referred to the Finance Committee for their study and recommendations to Council.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to deny the request to advertize in the Virginia Town & City Conference Issue and all members voted aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Britton explained the Local Government Investment Pool sponsored by the State. This 'pool' would enable municipalities to maximize their returns on the excess funds.

Mr. Britton also requested Council's permission to check on the process of putting the Town's funds in one Bank, if we can obtain more dividends and services. It was the general consensus of Council that Mr. Britton check on this and bring the facts back to Council.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to veto the Local Government Investment Pool.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Conner-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted against buying the Fireworks for the 1981 Railroad Festival.
chunk_id: 20717
record_id: 1737
page_number: 1

