ref: reel_03_0882
date: 1985-01-14
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, January 14, 1985, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: R. L. Bass, H. W. Conner, Ray Noble, Martin Webb, and R. C. Hubbard. Absent: S. E. Carter.

Others present: Mrs. Betty Martin, Wesley Martin, Watkins Abbitt, Jr., Dot Davidson, Cindy Ranson, Frances Abbitt, W. R. Britton, Jr. and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council approved the Agenda with the following additions: Old Business, 5. Chamber of Commerce; 6. Sewer System and New Business, 2. Fire Department Slate of Officers, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council approved the minutes of the December 10, 1984 meeting and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council approved the December, 1984, Financial Statement and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle presented a framed Resolution to Mrs. Betty Martin, widow of James H. Martin, that was adopted at the December meeting.

Mr. Watkins Abbitt, Jr., President to the Appomattox Chamber of Commerce, appeared before Council to request a donation from the Town to the Chamber for printing of the brochure.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to give the Chamber of Commerce a donation of $300.00 towards the printing of their brochure.

Conner-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Webb-aye
Motion carried.

Mrs. Cindy Ranson, Railroad Festival Committee Board, appeared before Council to request the Town to Co-Sponsor the 1985 Railroad Festival. She also requested permission for the Board to get quotes on up-grading the P.A. System owned by the Town in the Depot.

General consensus of Council that quotes be taken on up-grading the P.A. System.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, Seconded by Mr. Conner, Council agreed to Co-Sponsor the 1985 Railroad Festival with the Festival Board.

Conner-aye Bass-aye Webb-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council resolved to request the Auditor of Public Accounts to audit the Town's books for 1984.
chunk_id: 20898
record_id: 1918
page_number: 1

