ref: reel_02_0243
date: 1950-04-17
content: Regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on April 17, 1950 with Mayor D. E. Buchanan presiding and the following members present, C. F. James, J. E. Jameson, G. S. Jenkins, J. C. Caldwell, F. L. Murphy and C. I. Moses, Jr. Mr. H. E. Mitchell appeared before the council to offer $25.00 per month for rental of the Town office building behind the Drug Store, to construct a toilet room onto the present building, furnish and install all necessary fixtures (all at his expense) provided he be allowed at least a three year lease. By a motion duly carried the present renter, Mrs. Bertha Martin, is to be notified in writing of the $25.00 per month offer and given the usual 30 days notice to meet the new offer of vacate the building and rental privileges be given Mr. Mitchell with his offered alterations being approved by the property committee. Mr. W. Lane appeared again to seek information on the action of the council as to painting the old water tank. On motion made by G. S. Jenkins seconded by C. F. James and carried the matter was deferred for later consideration. Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read. The request of Mrs. Bertha Martin on a motion by J. C. Caldwell, seconded by J. E. Jameson and carried, she is not to be charged rent on the building for the days she is out for necessary repairs to the building. On a motion by E. T. Moses, seconded by F. L. Murphy and carried. Mr. C. A. Ages is to be advised that the Town will maintain a 30 foot wide street extending north from Evergreen Avenue across his property for a distance of 300 feet only after said street is graded, three houses built thereon and said street deeded to the Town of Appomattox. By a motion duly carried the employment of Mr. W. C. Porter was authorized to do street and sign painting at the rate of 50 cents per hour. The Town manager was requested to publish a reminder to the public through the local news papers of an ordinance dated January 5, 1948 requiring a fee of $25.00 for each call the fire truck responds to outside the corporate limits within a radius of 15 miles, and that the person placing such a call be billed for the $25.00, payable to the Town of Appomattox. An appeal of the McLean House Dedication Committee for a donation of $100.00 by the Town of Appomattox was approved on a motion by C. I. Moses, Jr., seconded by C. F. James on a vote of 5 council members for and G. S. Jenkins against. By a motion duly carried a building permit by J. W. (Sam) Conner to construct a residence on Anderson Mill Road was approved. A letter of recommendations covering the water services and charges to the Appomattox Garment Co. by the water committee dated April 5, 1950 was approved which is as follows: That for $1000.00 per month beginning with the month of April 1950 they shall be allowed the service of the Sprinkler system from the existing 10 inch main and treated water through the now presently installed 8 inch meters at their building on Route 460 not in excess of 100,000 gallons per month, and all excess metered water used at prevailing rates. The prevailing rate at this time is 30 cents per M. gallons. By a motion duly carried the installation of the necessary six inch gate valve was authorized at the base of the old water tank. By a motion duly carried the water committee was requested to make recommendations on improved water services and extensions on the street going toward the Coble Dairy, on Court Street toward the north west corporate limits and on Liberty Road south east from the new water tank. On a motion duly carried the Putney Heating and Plumbing Co. of Farmville, Virginia was given the job of opening the ditches for water lines for the Town at a price of 12 cents per linear foot. On a motion by C. I. Moses, Jr., seconded by J. C. Caldwell and carried the services of the extra day time policemen were authorized until May 15, 1959. (over)
chunk_id: 19727
record_id: 747
page_number: 1

