ref: reel_02_0446
date: 1966-11-21
content: The regular meeting of the Town Council was held in the Council Room on the 21 day of November 1966 at 7:30 P.M., with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding. The following members were present: Mrs. G. H. Robinson, Burke Guill, R. L. Wingfield, Ivey Holland, and R. C. Hubbard. The meeting was opened with a prayer. The minutes of the last regular and called meetings were read and approved. A discussion was held regarding the need for extra police protection. Efforts will be made to get a suitable man. Mayor Pack reported that water analysis for Well No. 6 has not been received, and the small size of the pipe under the railroad on Church Street prevents the pumping of sufficient flow of water at times to the large tank. The Budget Committee will meet on Wednesday, November 29. Wingfield reported that he will make further contacts about the 2 way radios for the Fire Department. Wingfield agreed to ask Paul Drinkard to solicit donations for the Fire Department members, and to arrange a supper for the firemen, town employees, Council members, Mayor and other people connected with the Town work. He is to make the arrangements and set the date for the supper. The Town will donate $.50 per member of the Fire Department to their Christmas fund. Wingfield moved and Hubbard seconded that: Up to $100.00 be spent for the supper. Motion carried. Guill reported that the sidewalk on Church Street at Oakley Avenue has been installed, and that C. Lewis McDearmon is planning a parking lot on Main Street. The Council voted to request Vepco to connect the Christmas lights and to pay for the current. Holland agreed to complete the purchase of land from Mrs. G. K. Hunter for widening Court Street. The Council decided that signs are needed at the Sanitary Fill. The Mayor reported that a settlement has been reached for the purchase of land for widening Confederate Boulevard from Teresa Hamlett. A discussion of J. R. Redd and being back in his rent was held. It was decided to notify him that he must catch up the arrears before January 1967 and then pay in advance. Wingfield moved and Hubbard seconded that: Storm windows be put in the Council Room, offices, and rest rooms, and a glass panel...
chunk_id: 19930
record_id: 950
page_number: 1

