1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
May 9, 2016

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, May 9, 2016 at
7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette

Others present:  Carlton Duck & Brian Moore, Alive Media TV; Daniel Puckette, Times
Virginian Newspaper; Ashlie Walter, News & Advance; Rev. Frank Casper, Central Baptist
Church, Mr. and Mrs. Donald Wilk, Jeff Elder, Facilities Manager, Stacey Wilkes, Treasurer,
Bill Gillespie, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Regular Council meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Frank Casper, Central Baptist Church led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey stated that the Greater Meadowlark Community Development Block Grant
project is underway.  Residents and the community will begin to see work in the next few
months.

The community should see the installation of new park equipment and pavilion at the Kiddie
Park.

The Town received an excellent annual water inspection report from the Virginia Department of
Health – Office of Drinking Water.

Mayor Harvey also commented on the new blinds in the Council Chambers.  They are very nice
and make the room feel calmer and warmer.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Consent Agenda -
On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for Monday, May 9, 2016 as presented.
Vote: Garrett –yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

Old Business – none

New Business –

Committee Recommendations –
None

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
May 9, 2016

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the following
resolution:

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
May 9, 2016

Vote: Garrett –yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

Town Manager’s Update – None

Citizen Comment Period – None

Council Concerns:
Ms. Spiggle is pleased and proud of the Public Works Department for the water report
inspection.  The Town has so many projects in progress and there are a lot of improvements in
the works.  She is very happy and pleased with the progress.

Mr. Conner said getting out from under the consent order has saved the Town money in the long
run.

Closed Session –

On a motion by Council Member Garrett, seconded by Council Member McDearmon, Council
voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 6 of the Code of Virginia
(1950), as amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the investment of public
funds where competition or bargaining is involved,  where, if made public initially, the financial
interest of the governmental unit would be adversely affected, specifically the possible
investment of  public funds for lights at the Appomattox Community Park.

Vote:
Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
May 9, 2016

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member McDearmon made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLOVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:
Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn at 8:15 p.m.
Vote: Garrett –yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

