1 Workshop Meeting
    Tuesday, June 28, 2011

The Appomattox Town Council held a workshop meeting on Tuesday, June 28, 2011 at
7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou
Spiggle, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Joyce B. Bennett.

Others present:  Cliff Harvey, Stephanie James, Wanda Jobe, Carlton Duck and Alive
TV, Jeff Elder, Utility Director; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; C. William Gillespie,
Interim Town Manager; Rhonda W. Guill, Deputy Clerk and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk
of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.  Mayor Harvey said item # 4 Planning
Commission Structure under updates has been removed from the agenda and Discussion
of Zoning for the Boundary Line Adjusted Area has been added.

Mayor Harvey announced the new Committee Structure as follows:

Finance and Planning
C. Lewis McDearmon, Chair
Steven T. “Steve” Conner
Joyce B. Bennett

Physical Development
N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Chair
Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett
Mary Lou Spiggle

Mayor Harvey will serve on both as ex-officio

Tourism Department Presentation
Mr. Gillespie introduced Wanda Jobe as the Lead Travel Counselor.  Mr. Gillespie
presented a power point presentation showcasing what the Town of Appomattox Tourism
Department will look like for FY 2012.  Appomattox has three (3) brochures, the Voices
from the Past, Walking Tour and the main “Appomattox” brochure which the Town will
split 50/50 with the county.  This brochure is distributing to over 400 hotels, restaurants,
rest areas, retail locations and attractions across Virginia.  We also have ads in the
Virginia Travel Corporation (VTC) travel Guide and the Virginia Hospitality Travel
Guide.  We have approximately 20,000 visitors come through our visitor’s center each
year, but we need to look at how we can get the people from the National Park to
downtown.  Mr. Gillespie suggested possibly looking into a trolley service.  Mr. Gillespie
said Council should be commended for not raising taxes and for the effort they put into
cutting the budget.  The misconception is that the tourism department has been gutted; he
wants to make sure the public understands we still have a tourism department.  Over the

2 Workshop Meeting
    Tuesday, June 28, 2011

last year the Town of Appomattox has invested over $400,000.00 in the tourism
department.  The Town provided the sewer line for the Museum of the Confederacy in
the amount of $350,000.00.  Mr. Gillespie feels we need to look at putting ads together
for the upcoming Sesquicentennial and we need a strategy for the entire event.  On July
21, 2011 Manassas National Battlefield will kick-off and Roxanne Paulette, Anne Dixon
and Jeff Taylor will be attending.  He would like to see our local Sesquicentennial
Committee meet quarterly, then begin to meet more often as the date nears.  Mr. Gillespie
also gave an update on the Museum of the Confederacy.  The building is about 35%
complete, sewer bids are due by July 7, 2011 and the sewer line is estimated to be
completed by November 2011.  The building is estimated to be completed by March
2012 but could be sooner.   Mr. Gillespie concluded the presentation by saying the
Tourism Program in Appomattox is alive and well.

Updates
Preliminary Engineering Report – Wastewater Treatment
Mr. Gillespie reported that everything is on schedule and we should have some rough
numbers by July 2011 and the full report by September 2011 on closing and/or expanding
one of the treatment plants.  There are USDA Grants available as well as loans; the
Tobacco Commission should have some opportunities available.  The entire report will
be ready for presentation in September 2011.

Phase II of the STAG Project – Sewer to the Museum of the Confederacy
The federal budget is in a mass state of flux.  The EPA is looking at what is still out there
and what has already been committed.  The Town has requested a transfer of $15,000.00
from water portion of the STAG grant to sewer portion of the STAG grant to help
complete the sewer going to MOC.  It is unknown whether the Town’s request will be
granted due to the federal budgeting issues.  The $76,000.00 that was committed for the
sewer portion of the grant is still there and we will get it.

Sidewalk Project
Mr. Gillespie introduced Jeff Elder, Utility Director.  He advised we did advertise the
sidewalk project for bid.  Mr. Elder presented a power point presentation on the sidewalk
project.  The areas in question are Burke Street, Church Street, Highland Avenue and
portions of Lee Grant Avenue.  We are focusing on the sidewalks included in the walking
tour.  The total sidewalk project is 1306 LF.  It was recommended to cut the sidewalk on
Church Street from the project and to borrow the funds from next year’s reserve to
complete the entire sidewalk project this year.  The bids received are as follows:
Pearson Construction -
$65,092.00
Quality Buildings and Decks, LLC -  $50,400.00
$49,280.00
Lee White Concrete, LLC -

Discussion of Zoning for the Boundary Line Adjusted Area
Mr. Gillespie discussed the Boundary Line Adjusted Area Zoning.  He explained that as
of right now all the property within that area is currently considered by-right zoning.  He
suggested a Zoning amendment which would re-zone that area to B-1 and would also

3 Workshop Meeting
    Tuesday, June 28, 2011

require a conditional use permit.  Ms. Paulette explained the process: (1) Mr. Wright
would draft an Ordinance (2) The Ordinance would be presented to Council.  (3) Council
would send the Ordinance to the Planning Commission; the Planning Commission will
have up to 60 days to send a recommendation back to Council.  (4) Council will then pass
the Ordinance.  The best case scenario will have the Ordnance Amendment passes by
September 2011 and worse case will have the Ordinance passed by October, November
2011 at the latest.  It is the consensus of Council to move forward with this process.

Priority & Initiatives Plan
Mr. Gillespie gave an update on the Priority & Initiative; he explained that most are on
schedule.  The only ones he thinks we will have to slip out a little bit is the one for the
Pay Scale, Planning Commission and the Town Shop.  Otherwise, we are on schedule.
This comes up pretty quickly; he wants Council to start having discussion in September
or October to update these for next year.  We will have to adopt another Priority &
Initiative plan by January 2012.  Mr. Gillespie wants Council to look over the list of
Street Lights that have been recommended to be added.  The cost per light is
approximately $185.00 per year.

Waterline Purchase and Maintenance Agreement
Mr. Gillespie explained that the County needed some of type of documentation, since he
didn’t have time to get actual numbers he used VDOT numbers to base the equipment
cost on.  The rates are variable and the cost will change each year.  The copy that was
given to the County was just a draft and he hopes to finalize it within a couple of weeks.
Mr. Gillespie asked Council to give him any comments they may have in order for him to
finalize the agreement.   Mr. Gillespie is waiting on some information from the County
Administrator regarding the Purchase Agreement.

Updates from Standing Committees
Finance – The FY 2011-2012 budget was approved.
Fire & Safety – The committee is looking into blighted properties.
Ordinance – The committee is reviewing the current Sign Ordinance.
Personnel – No report
Street & Property – No report
Utility – No report

Updates from Staff Members
Town Manager – Nothing to report
Treasurer – The Town of Appomattox will continue to contribute to the Community of
Candles by way of paying for items needed by invoice, not to exceed $1,500.00.
Clerk of Council – Anyone interested in attending the VML Conference needs to let her
know as soon as possible.

Closed Session
On a motion made by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 3 of the Code of

4 Workshop Meeting
    Tuesday, June 28, 2011

Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the
acquisition of real property for a public purpose, where discussion in an open meeting
would adversely affect the bargaining position or negotiating strategy of the public body,
specifically being for the expansion and/or relocation of the Public Works facilities.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye
Bennett - aye

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from
open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified
in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed or considered by this
council.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye
Bennett - aye

Council Concerns - None

On a motion made by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett,
Council voted to adjourn at 9:30 p.m.  Al members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

_________________________________
Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC

_________________________
Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

