ref: reel_02_0371
date: 1960-11-21
content: A motion was made by Dr. Lawson, seconded by Randolph Gilbert that the Town increase Mr. Henry A. White's salary $15.00 per month beginning November 1, 1960, for communications. Motion carried.

There being no further business the meeting adjourned to meet again on the regular meeting date of November 21, 1960.

Signed Chas. T. Moses, Jr., Mayor
Signed G. J. Hunter, Clerk

NOVEMBER MEETING 1960

The regular meeting of the Town Council met in the Mayor's office on November 21, 1960 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Chas. T. Moses, Jr. presiding.
The following members were present: Mrs. C. H. Robinson, Dr. S. A. Lawson, Ivey Holland and Randolph Gilbert.

A motion was made by Dr. Lawson, seconded by Ivey Holland that the Town put up a street light on the proper light pole on South Church Street. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Ivey Holland, seconded by Dr. Lawson, that the Depot Street name be changed to Linden Street, the street at back of Carver Price High School be named Price Lane, and Route 460 be named Confederate Blvd, and the street from the Ice Plant to Wooten's Mill be named Commerce Street. Motion carried.

A motion made by Ivey Holland, seconded by Mrs. C. H. Robinson, the town give Farmers National Bank the authority to construct a canopy when all traffic can pass under and have the alley designated a one way street leading from the back of the Bank to Main Street. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Ivey Holland, seconded by Mrs. C. H. Robinson, that the Town approves putting up the Christmas lights on Main and Church Streets and send V. E. P. Co. $10.00. Motion carried.

A motion was made by Ivey Holland, seconded by Dr. Lawson, that the Town give the Town Manager authority to get bids on a new well for the town and have the Water Committee give approval on the bids. Motion carried.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned.

Signed Chas. T. Moses, Jr., Mayor
Signed G. J. Hunter, Clerk
chunk_id: 19855
record_id: 875
page_number: 1

