1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 13, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, February 13, 2017
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin Finch, Steven T. Conner and
Claudia G. Puckette.

Members absent:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.

Others present:  Carlton Duck & Brian Moore, Alive Media Services; Daniel Puckette, Times
Virginian Newspaper; Ashlie Walter, News & Advance; Tom Utz, Linda Lipscomb, Kelly
Hitchcock, Clarence Monday, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Regular Council meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Consent Agenda -
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to approve the consent
agenda of February 13, 2017 with the addition of NB #7 and committee recommendations under
Committee reports.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette –
aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

New Business –
On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to appoint Mr. Tom Utz
and Mr. Jeff Garrett to the Town of Appomattox Economic Development Authority effective
immediately with a term ending December 31, 2021.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch
– aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to adopt the Economic
Restructuring Plan for the Downtown Revitalization project.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle – aye,
Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Ms. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the Greater
Meadowlark Neighborhood Improvement Project Housing Program Design.  Vote:  Garrett –
aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion
carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the following
resolution authorizing participation in the Virginia Main Street Commercial District Affiliate
Program:

WHEREAS, the Virginia Main Street Program has established the DHCD Commercial
District Affiliate Program in the Virginia Department of Housing and Community

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 13, 2017

Development (DHCD) to assist localities in developing public and private initiatives to
revitalize their downtown commercial areas; and

WHEREAS, interested Virginia cities, towns, and counties that are exploring

downtown revitalization may participate as an affiliate; and

WHEREAS, affiliate communities are provided access to all Virginia Main Street

training, resources, and some technical assistance, as program resources permit; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox is actively engaged in revitalization of its

pedestrian-oriented traditional downtown area and has developed the Town of
Appomattox Economic Restructuring Plan to guide revitalization efforts.; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox will strive to utilize the four points of the

Main Street Program:  Economic Restructuring, Design, Promotions, and Organization.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Town Council of the Town of

Appomattox, Virginia:
That the Town of Appomattox apply for selection to participate in the DHCD
Commercial District Affiliate Program.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Town of Appomattox will commit to

utilizing the Main Street Approach and will utilize the training and program resources as
tools and best practices within the downtown revitalization efforts.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon -
absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the Greater
Meadowlark Neighborhood Improvement Project Housing Program Design.  Vote:  Garrett –
aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion
carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to authorize staff to issue
a Request for Proposal (RFP) for interim construction financing.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle –
aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to authorize staff to solicit
bids for Phase I construction of the Inflow and Infiltration Rehabilitation project.  Vote:  Garrett
– aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion
carried 5-0.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 13, 2017

There was discussion by Council to authorize payment for ½ of the legal fees associated with the
joint EDA possibilities.  To date the current bill is $2,310.00 for Bill Hefty.  This item will be
added to the next Council meeting agenda for consideration/authorization.

Committee Recommendations:
On a recommendation of the Physical Development Committee, Council voted to adopt the FY
2018 Capital Improvement Plan and inclusion into the FY 2018 Budget.  Vote:  Garrett – aye,
Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner - no, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried 4-1.

On a recommendation of the Physical Development Committee and Finance & Planning
Committee, Council voted to recommend denial of the request for a zoning amendment to allow
mobile homes in the R-3 Zoning District with a Conditional Use Permit.  Vote:  Garrett – aye,
Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried
5-0.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Kelly Hitchcock, Planning & Development Director with Region 2000 appeared before Council
to provide an update on the Downtown Revitalization Planning Grant Economic Restructuring
Plan.  Mrs. Hitchcock explained several different scenario’s with Council regarding the grant
application.  Her next steps include attending a technical assistance workshop next week, holding
a public hearing on March 13, 2017 with the Town Council, and the application is due by 5:00
p.m. on March 29, 2017 to the Department of Housing and Community Development.

*Mr. Conner left at this point in the meeting but thanked everyone for working around him
tonight as he had a family emergency to take care of.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey commended Mr. Monday on “hitting the ground running”.  He has been working
hard over the last six (6) weeks.  He has also been working well with staff.

Citizen Comment Period –
Mrs. Linda Lipscomb – 147 Maple Street, Appomattox and Site Director for the Museum of the
Confederacy will be retiring on March 31, 2017 after 5 years in Appomattox.  She will be just
days short of 17 years with the Museum of the Confederacy system.  She looks forward to her
continued work on various projects in Appomattox.

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Monday reported he is becoming familiar with the Town’s operations and staff.  He has a
tour of the Town planned with Mr. Elder for tomorrow.  He is looking forward to one on one
interaction with each council member.  He thanked Council for the opportunity to serve.

Town Manager’s Report –
Mr. Monday reminded Town Council that the Virginia Municipal League will be hosting a
Regional Supper in Appomattox on Thursday, April 6, 2017 at the Appomattox Inn and Suites in
Town.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 13, 2017

The Town invoiced VDOT for $7,640.00 for snow removal in January 2017.

The Town received a favorable score on the VDOT Smart Scale project for Old Courthouse
Road.   The Town should be receiving more information in the spring 2017.

Council Concerns:
None

Closed Session:
On a motion by Council Member Garrett, seconded by Council Member Puckette, Council voted
to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950,
as amended, for the purpose of discussion of the performance of a specific public appointee of
the Town, specifically being Appointee A.

Vote:
Garrett – aye, McDearmon – absent, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – absent, Puckette –
aye.  Motion carried 4-0.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Garrett made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLOVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Finch and Council by the following recorded vote
adopted the motion:

Vote:
Garrett – aye, McDearmon – absent, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – absent, Puckette –
aye.  Motion carried 4-0.

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 13, 2017

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn the regular
council meeting at 8:45 p.m.   Vote:  Garrett – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – absent,
Puckette – aye. McDearmon - absent.  Motion carried 4-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

