1  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
February 28, 2017-6:00 pm

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, February 28, 2017 at
6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G.
Puckette.

Members absent:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr. and M. Erin Finch

Others present:  Daniel Puckette, Times Virginian Newspaper; Kelly Hitchcock, Region 2000;
Jeff Elder, Facilities Manager, Clarence Monday, Interim Town Manager and Roxanne W.
Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Harvey called the workshop meeting to order.

Staff provided Council with the FY 2018 Budget Timeline (calendar).

Mr. Monday provided an update on the CDBG Downtown Revitalization Grant
application/project. The Town is getting down to the wire with a little more than a month before
the application is due for submission. Staff continues to work with the Courtland Field project as
a component of the grant application.

Ms. Hitchcock met with Doug Ellis from DHCD to discuss components of the grant application
such as what could and could not be included. She met with Mr. Jamerson and Ms. Adams to
discuss components of the grant and the Courtland Field project.

$700,000 is the magic number for the proposed budget in the grant application. The project
management team (Downtown Revitalization team) will meet again on March 2, 2017 for
recommendations to Town Council.

On March 13, 2017-The Town Council will hold a public hearing on the proposed grant
application to inform citizens exactly what the grant application will consist of for submission.

Mr. Conner stated he would like to review the material ahead of time and wanted to know how
much each business might receive in grant funding.

Ms. Spiggle wanted to know how much grant funding could we apply for.

Ms. Hitchcock provided 1-4 (A-D) scenarios.

Option A- is the original downtown portion of the project.

Options B-C-D are variations including Courtland Field, street lights, etc.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
February 28, 2017-6:00 pm

Each business/property owner could receive up to 20,000 of grant funding. $280,000 is available
for façade improvements= 20,000 x 14 properties=$280,000.

The Courtland Field project is $600,000= $300,000 private, $300,000 Town/County.

Mr. Garrett- stated he likes the concept (Courtland Field) but thinks it can be done in phases.

Mayor Harvey- stated that lights for the stage and an IT component for the stage area need to be
considered.

Mr. Conner- the project looks nice and will clean up a “blighted” piece of property in Town.
This is a true economic impact on the downtown area.

Mrs. Puckette-I am ok with the project but where do we stand on the budget.

Mayor Harvey said he thinks we should still put in public money (Town funds).

Mr. Monday stated there will be a joint informational meeting on Thursday, March 9, 2017 at the
Appomattox County Board of Supervisors meeting room (board room) at 6:30 pm for public
input.

Discussion of Phase II of the Town Children’s Park
The second phase will consist of bathrooms and splash pad. There is approximately $270,000
remaining from the FY 2017 budget and council has adopted a CIP for FY 2018 proposing an
additional $345,000. Within approximately 2 weeks the specifications and scope of the project
will be prepared. The project will be advertised for 30 days. The bids will be brought back for
council to award. There will be 1 bid for the bathrooms and 1 bid for the splash pad.

On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted to
move forward with the bid process for Phase II of the Town Community (Kiddie) Park.
VOTE: Garrett-yes, Spiggle-yes, Conner-yes, Puckette-yes. Motion carried 4-0.

Conner asked if this will cover everything intended at the park-security system, additional
parking, a small pavilion or two (2)?  Have we figured out any maintenance amounts or
operational costs?

Mr. Elder said the facilities will be checked daily and that UV lights are being installed which
offer the lowest maintenance cost. There will be locks on the bathroom doors with timers.

Vacant Town Positions
Dana Glover has been hired as the Accounting/HR Specialist and will start March 6, 2017.

Town Treasurer-The previous employee provided resignation effective February 28, 2017. This
is a critical component and vital position for the Town.  Looking at the future of the Town, the
position description has been updated and staff feels the compensation should be reflective.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
February 28, 2017-6:00 pm

On a motion by Ms. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to regrade the positon of
Town Treasurer from a 7 to an 11.
VOTE: Garrett-yes, Spiggle-yes, Conner-no, Puckette-yes. Motion carries. 3-1

Mrs. Puckette stated she would like to see some type of compensation for those employees
affected by the recent interruptions without a Town Manager and Town Treasurer.

Mr. Conner stated he would rather see a bonus for this type of compensation.

Mr. Monday will research what would be appropriate.

Mr. Monday discussed the Town Manager’s position. He spoke with department heads and Mr.
Gillespie and is recommending for the town to hire a full-time Town Manager.  Part-time may
save the Town money, but there are disadvantages. The person isn’t always available and it is
difficult for that person to be involved with the community.

Full-time will cost more money but the person will be fully devoted to the Town. A full time
person is better able to fill the dots.

Mr. Monday will handle recruitment, advertisement and a timeline for filling the position.

Under his contract with the Town he will provide the utmost flexibility to find the best candidate.
Per the VRS guidelines, the Town needs to be actively recruiting a full-time Town Manager. If
needed a VRS extension could be requested by the Town for Mr. Monday.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to move forward with the
recruitment process for Town Manager. All council members present voting aye. Motion carried
4-0.

Council Concerns:
There will be an informational meeting for the Courtland Field project on Thursday, March 9,
2017 at 6:30 pm at the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors, Meeting room, 191 Price
Lane, Appomattox, Virginia.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 7:35 pm. All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 4-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

