1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
May 25, 2010

At the May Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on May 25, 2010 at 6:30
pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding.

Council members present:  Bryan J. Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.,
and John T. “Plicky” Williams.  Absent:  Karl E. Carter and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.

Also in attendance were:  Frank Wright, Jr., Town Attorney, Bart S. Van Nieuwenhuise, Town
Manager; Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950,
as amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel employed or retained by a public
body regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel,
such specific legal matters being a potential claim from Fielder’s Choice Enterprises, Inc. for
repair work at the Appomattox Reclamation Facility for Structural Modifications.

Vote:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye.  Absent:  Carter and
Jamerson-Scruggs.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

Vote:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye.  Absent:  Carter and
Jamerson-Scruggs.

Mayor Harvey called the 7:00 p.m. Workshop Meeting to order.

Others present:  Mary Lou Spiggle, Timmy Garrett, Steve Conner, Joyce Bennett, Stacey Wilkes,
Hazel Thomas, Bill & June Goodrich, Bill Smith, Ronnie Lankford, Stephanie James, Carlton
Duck, Nolan Connelly.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council
voted to add an item at the request the Town Attorney.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

There was no action by the Appomattox Town Council as a result of the closed session

Frank Wright addressed with Council a letter and material he received from town residents
regarding the eligibility of Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs being able to continue serving in her
capacity of Council Member until June 30, 2010.  Mr. Wright contacted Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs
and she stated that she does have a residence in North Carolina but also has one in the Town of

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
May 25, 2010

Appomattox.  She stated that she considers herself a resident of the Town of Appomattox.  Mr.
Wright indicated that he does not feel it is his place to investigate without permission or
guidance from council.  Mr. Wright stated that honestly there are only two more meetings for the
remainder of this term.  A writ of quo warranto would need to be filed in order to pursue the
matter.  The Code of Virginia section 8.01-637 was cited for reference.  Council directed Frank
Wright, Town Attorney not to pursue the issue.

Council discussed the Conflict of Interest item requested by Councilmember Baine.  The State
Code limits the amount of gifts to $50.00.  Mr. Baine stated that the State Code allows the Town
to change the dollar amount and to put in a cumulative limit.  Mr. Williams stated that it not be
limited to monetary limits but also to include in-kind services.  Mr. Mayberry indicated he didn’t
understand where all of this was coming from.  Mr. Baine said it was sensible to have a periodic
review and prefers a lower limit than $50.00.

Council also discussed the Virginia Conflict of Interests Act and the Statement of Economic
Interests.  Towns are allowed to opt-in to the program.  Town with a population of 3,500 or
more, Cities and Counties must participate while Towns with a population of less than 3,500 are
exempt but can opt-in.  Mr. Mayberry stated that he doesn’t care where candidates get their
money from.  Mr. Baine stated that it’s the people’s business – I’m not saying we have that
problem here but it’s worthy of discussing.  Mr. Mayberry said he thinks we (the Town) should
turn the matter over to Frank Wright to look into and see what other localities do and then
respond back to council.

Councilmember Baine reminded Council that it is time to review the Town’s portion of the
County Comprehensive Plan.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
authorize the Town Manager to sign the Member Agreement by and among the VML Insurance
Programs as successor to the merger of the Virginia Municipal Group Self-Insurance Association
d/b/a the Virginia Municipal Liability Pool (VMLP), the Virginia Municipal League (VML), a
local association of city, town, and county governments, and the undersigned Virginia political
subdivision, or agency thereof, which upon admission will become, a member of the Pool.  (see
attached).  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Williams, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council
voted to adopt the Virginia Municipal League Insurance Programs Bylaws – Amended and
Restated as of July 1, 2010.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Standing Committee Reports
Finance – Mr. McDearmon reported that the Public Hearing for the Budget is slated for Monday,
June 14, 2010 at 7:00 p.m.

Fire & Safety – none

Ordinance – none

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
May 25, 2010

Personnel – Mr. Williams reported that the committee met last week but has nothing to report.

Street & Property – Mr. Baine reported that he and Mr. McDearmon met.  No quorum was
present.  The sidewalk projects are on-going.  Another informal meeting will be scheduled at a
later date.

Utility – no report

Staff Reports
Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise reported that that the Treasurer’s Report has been updated.  Ms. Wilkes
will be available quarterly at workshop meetings to answer any questions you may have.  Mr.
Van Nieuwenhuise stated that it could be more often if council desired.

Mr. Mayberry inquired about the 4th of July fireworks.  When were they approved?
Mr. Baine asked if it was in the budget.
Mr. Mayberry asked what else was being done on July 4th.
Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise responded that something else is scheduled, but couldn’t recall.  He
stated he would get an update from the Director of Tourism.
Mr. Mayberry stated that time is growing near.
Mr. Baine said he hoped we do more – let’s add something to it.

Mr. Williams stated it was worth noting that tourism was up 7.2% over the same time last year.
Since it is such a large portion of our budget that we must be making our visitors feel welcome.

Mayor Harvey asked about the status of the wells that are off-line.  Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise
reported that the town staff is working with the Virginia Department of Health and the town
plans to cycle them back in during June.

Mr. Williams commented that the paving at the Town Office and Library parking lots looks
great!

Council Concerns – none

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Williams, Council
voted to adjourn at 7:50 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

