ref: reel_02_0442
date: 1966-10-17
content: The regular meeting of the Town Council was held in the Council Room on October 17, 1966 at 7:30 P. M. with Mayor Henry B. Pack presiding.

Members present: Mrs. Calvin H. Robinson, Burke Guill, R. L. Bass, R. C. Hubbard, Troy Holland, and R. L. Wingfield.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Mayor called attention to the Public Hearing to be held on October 21, 1966 at noon, for the purpose of considering the Proposed Future Land Use for Appomattox County and the Town of Appomattox. He called a special Council Meeting for this time to consider adopting it.

Mayor Pack informed the Council that future plans call for a 12" water main in Church Street, and said that plans should be made about getting the pipe under the railroad.

The Mayor reported that Well No. 6 has been drilled, pump tested and grouted. The well supplied a continued flow of 150 GPM with a draw down of 72 feet.

Hubbard reported that Mr. R. G. Moore has agreed to move the hedge in his yard so that a sidewalk can be built on Church Street. Hubbard moved and Holland seconded that the Town build the new walk in front of Mr. Moore's house and repair the sidewalk at the side of his house. Motion carried.

Holland discussed the steps on Church Street to the elevated sidewalks. The Town Manager was instructed to paint them with fluorescent paint.

Wingfield suggested that the Street Committee see the County Board of Supervisors about cleaning up in front of the Court House.

Wingfield offered to get information on the cost of two way radios for the fire trucks by October 21.

The Council decided that Lizzie Street should be Ethel Street. Bass moved and Wingfield seconded, that the name of Caruth Avenue be changed to Moses Street. Motion carried.

The Mayor reported that the 6" water loop has been laid in High Street.

Wingfield said that the Rescue Squad had requested a refund of the water charges in accordance with their agreement with the Town. The Town Manager was instructed to refund the money through 1965 and also to install a water meter for the service. In the future, the refund will apply to the minimum water charges.

Guill reported that C. Lewis McDearmon has requested that a new sidewalk be built in front of the two new stores that he is building on Main Street.

Guill moved and Mrs. Robinson seconded: That the State Highway Department be requested to build the sidewalks, with the Town furnishing the materials, as the Town does not have the labor.
chunk_id: 19926
record_id: 946
page_number: 1

