1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 13, 2015

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, April 13, 2015
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Steven T.
Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent:  N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry

Others present:  Marvin Mitchell, Roger Carson, S. L. Ferguson, Daniel Puckette, Philipp
Gabathuler, Region 2000; Stephanie James, Times Virginian; Katrina Koerting, News and
Advance; Linda Lipscomb, Museum of the Confederacy; Carlton Duck and Brian Moore, Alive
Media TV; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; Bill Gillespie, Town Manager and Roxanne Casto,
Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey recognized those involved with the planning of the Sesquicentennial events.  The
shuttles were excellent at moving people around.

Mayor Harvey recognized and thanked Katrina Koerting with the News and Advance for her
service.  Katrina will be leaving the News and Advance to return to Connecticut.

Scheduled Public Appearances –
Philipp Gabathuler with Region 2000 presented the “draft” comprehensive plan.  The final plan
will be presented in June 2015.

The Mayor and Council commended the Planning Commission and Philipp for the draft
comprehensive plan and all their hard work.

Consent Agenda -
On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for April 13, 2015 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business – none

New Business –

Mr. Gillespie provided an update on the Water Park Feasibility Study.  He and Mr. Garrett had a
conference call with the consultant.  There will be three (3) meetings to gather information, give
their conceptual findings and an operational assessment.  The consultant will be looking at the
health of the community.  The same data can be used for marketing within a hundred mile radius.
The consultant will also look at other communities and say “this is what we see”, “these are your
possibilities” and give the Town options.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 13, 2015

The Town will put together a committee.  The Consultant and the Town will put together site
assessments.   A report will be generated in 2-3 months.

Mayor Harvey commented that he is looking at the feasibility study from a diagnosis
perspective.  Any information is good/helpful information.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the VDOT Land
Use Permit Resolution:

“RESOLUTION”

WHEREAS, it becomes necessary from time to time for the Town of Appomattox to obtain land
use permits from the Virginia Department of Transportation to install, construct, maintain and
operate certain public works and public utilities projects along, across over and upon highway
systems of the Commonwealth of Virginia; and,

WHEREAS, expense, damage or injury may be sustained by the Commonwealth of Virginia
growing out of granting to the Town of Appomattox by the Virginia Department of
Transportation of said permits for the work aforesaid;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Appomattox Town Council this 13th day of
April, 2015:

Section 1:  That in accordance with the provisions of Section 24VAC30-151-720 of the Land Use
Permit Regulations of the Virginia Department of Transportation, the Town of Appomattox does
hereby grant assurances to the Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT) that it shall in all
respects comply with all of the conditions of the permit or permits that have been, or will be,
granted to the Town of Appomattox and that said jurisdiction does hereby certify that it will
carry liability insurance for personal injury and property damage that may arise from the work
performed under permit and/or from the operation of the permitted activity as follows:  up to
one-million dollars ($1,000,000) each occurrence to protect the Commonwealth Transportation
Board members and the Virginia Department of Transportation’s agents or employees; seventy-
five thousand dollars ($75,000) each occurrence to protect the Commonwealth Transportation
Board, the Virginia Department of transportation or the Commonwealth of Virginia in the event
of suit.

Section 2:  That the County Administrator, City or Town Mayor, or their designee, be, and
hereby is authorized to execute on behalf of the Town of Appomattox all land use permits and
related documents of the Virginia Department of Transportation.

Section 3:  That this resolution shall be a continuing resolution and shall not be revoked unless
and until sixty (60) days written notice of any proposed revocation be submitted to the Virginia
Department of Transportation.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 13, 2015

Section 4:  That the Town of Appomattox shall, if requested by the Virginia Department of
Transportation, provide a letter that commits to using the surety provided by its contractor or to
have the contractor execute a dual obligation rider that adds the Virginia Department of
Transportation as an additional obligee to the surety bond provided to the locality, with either of
these options guaranteeing the work performed within state maintained right-of-way under the
terms of the land use permit for that purpose.

BE IT STILL FURTHER RESOLVED that the County Administrator, City or Town Mayor, or
their designee, be, and hereby is authorized and directed to procure insurance required by
Section 1 herein.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to accept the
recommendation of the Appomattox Town Planning Commission to approve the Special Except
for the Museum of the Confederacy in Appomattox for Tax Map #64(A) 95C.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the following
resolution:

1.  Consideration to adopt a resolution amending the FY 2015 Operating Budget for the

General Fund for FY 2014-2015 for Cigarette Tax revenue and expense, special event
expenses, the Master Plan feasibility study Phase I, water park feasibility study, and the
purchase of radio system

WHEREAS, Section15.2-2507, Code of Virginia, allows that a governing body may amend the
budget from time to time

2.  NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby

amend the FY 2015 Operating Budget for the General Fund for FY 2014-2015 for Cigarette
Tax revenue and expense, special event expenses, the Master Plan feasibility study Phase I,
water park feasibility study, and the purchase of radio system

General Fund Expenditures
Administrative
Council
Donations
Public Works
Tourism
Property Maintenance & Construction
Net Increase in Budget

 $   15,000
      51,000
        1,200
      35,380
      35,000
  $  88,920

 $ 226,500

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 13, 2015

General Fund Revenues
Cigarette Tax
Use of Equipment Reserve
Net Increase in Budget

$ 172,500
$   54,000

$ 226,500

SECTION XIII:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the Fiscal
Year 2015 budget amendments are hereby adopted, and the monies necessary to fund it are
hereby appropriated and shall be certified by the Clerk of Council and maintained as an archive
document with the official minutes of the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia.
Amended this 13th day of April 2015.

Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Puckette – yes, Conner – no.  Motion
carried 4-1.  Mr. Mayberry was absent.

Town Manager’s Report – Mr. Gillespie expressed his concern to Council about the lack of
information and that the Town is involved in an identity crisis.  It is the Town’s responsibility to
provide quality of life.  Mr. Gillespie said he would like to see an article in the local paper once
or twice a month.  The Town could use the PTO’s / High School students to explain what the
town is doing.  The town could utilize a newsletter to explain things going on in government as
well as explain the difference in Town and County government.

Citizen Comment Period – none

Council Concerns –
Mr. Conner expressed concerns with social media comments/concerns with the music
downtown.  Mrs. Casto explained that the issue with the music downtown has since been
resolved since the posting of the comment.

Ms. Spiggle recognized the efforts of Linda Lipscomb since the Museum of the Confederacy
opened.  Mrs. Lipscomb is doing all she can to improve the visitor’s experience.

Council wished Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer a happy birthday.

Mrs. Puckette comments that the Museum of the Confederacy is the spark in this community.  It
has been a huge encouragement to the tourism industry.

Mayor Harvey commented on the ribbon cutting for the first ROSE garden project.  After the
next committee meeting, efforts will begin for another round of solicitations.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 8:30 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
April 13, 2015

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

