1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 13, 2014

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, January 13, 2014
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Jr., C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N.H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Willie Craft, Rev. Rusty Small, Cathy Sherman, Bill
Burke, Bob Goode, Katrina Koetring, Stephanie James, Chad Millner, Stacey Wilkes, Town
Treasurer; C. William Gillespie, Jr., Town Manager; and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Rusty Small, Liberty Baptist Church led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Scheduled Public Appearances –
None

Mayor’s Comments –
Mayor Harvey invited Council and guests to a meeting on Friday, January 24, 2014 at 2:00 p.m.
at the Appomattox County Administrator’s Conference Room for a meeting on Way Finding
Signs.

Consent Agenda –
On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adopt the
Consent Agenda with the addition of 4A – Consideration of the proposals received for the Cell
Tower Agreements and 4B – Consideration to accept an Option from Nextel for the
decommissioning of cell tower site.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

New Business –
On a recommendation of the Finance & Planning Committee, Council voted to approve the
following:

AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND Section 185-23 of the Code of the Town of Appomattox, Chapter
185, Article III, and to add the following provision which shall become Section 185-24 thereof,
entitled “Presumption where vehicle illegally parked.”

Be it ordained by the Council of the Town of Appomattox, as follows:

Section 1.  Sections 185-23 and 185-24 of Chapter 185 of the Code of the Town of Appomattox
shall appear as follows:

§185-23.  Reserved parking for the disabled.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 13, 2014

A.  It shall be unlawful for a vehicle not displaying disabled parking license plates, an
organizational removable windshield placard, a permanent removable windshield placard, or a
temporary removable windshield placard issued under § 46.2-731 of the Code of Virginia or DV
disabled parking license plates issued under § 46.2-739(B) of the Code of Virginia to be parked
in a parking space reserved for persons with disabilities that limit or impair their ability to walk
or for a person who is not limited or impaired in his ability to walk to park a vehicle in a parking
space so designated except when transporting a person with such disability in the vehicle.

B.  Any person violating this section shall be fined $100.

C.  A summons or parking ticket for the offense may be issued by law enforcement officer or
other uniformed personnel employed by the county to enforce parking regulations within the
Town without the necessity of a warrant being obtained by the owner of the private parking lot.

§185-24.  Presumption where vehicle illegally parked.

In any prosecution charging a violation of any parking regulation contained in this Article, proof
that the vehicle described in the complaint, summons or warrant was parked in violation of such
regulation, together with proof that the defendant was at the time of such parking the registered
owner of the vehicle, as required by Chapter 3 of Title 46.2 of the Code of Virginia, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that such registered owner of the vehicle was
the person who parked the vehicle at a place where, and for the time during which, such
violation occurred.

Section 2.  Effective Date.

This ordinance shall become effective upon its passage.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a recommendation of the Finance & Planning Committee, Council voted to approve the
following:

AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND Section 16-1 of the Code of the Town of Appomattox, Chapter 16,
Section 1, entitled “Where Town elections held”.

Be it ordained by the Council of the Town of Appomattox, as follows:

Section 1.  Section 1 of the Code of the Town of Appomattox shall appear as follows:

§16-1.  Where Town elections held.

The County School Board office Board of Supervisors Meeting Room, 171 Price Lane,
Appomattox, Virginia shall be the polling place for all Town elections.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 13, 2014

Section 2.  Effective Date.

This ordinance shall become effective upon its passage.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adopt the following
budget amendment by resolution:

Consideration to adopt a resolution amending the FY 2014 Operating Budget for the General Fund for
the purchase of a public works truck in the amount of $26,715; the new police agreement in the amount of
$6,000; and $42,600 to carry forward unspent funds appropriated in FY 2013 for the marketing study.

WHEREAS, Section15.2-2507, Code of Virginia, allows that a governing body may amend the budget
from time to time

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby amend the FY
2013-2014 Operating Budget of the General Fund to appropriate the funds for the purchase of a public
works truck in the amount of $26,715; the new police agreement in the amount of $6,000; and $42,600 to
carry forward unspent funds appropriated in FY 2013 for the marketing study:

General Fund Expenditures

Professional
Police
Public Works
Net Increase in Budget

General Fund Revenues
Use of Undesignated Fund Balance
Use of Equipment Reserve
Net Increase in Budget

SECTION XIII:

  $ 42,600
       6,000
     26,715
 $  75,315

 $ 58,600
    26,715
              $  75,315

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the Fiscal Year 2014
budget amendments are hereby adopted, and the monies necessary to fund it are hereby appropriated and
shall be certified by the Clerk of Council and maintained as an archive document with the official minutes
of the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia.

Amended this 13th  day of January 2014.

Attest:

Roxanne W. Casto, Town Clerk

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 13, 2014

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette
– aye.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to adopt the following
budget amendment by resolution:

Consideration to adopt a resolution amending the FY 2014 Operating Budget for the Sewer Fund for the
emergency purchase of computer software and equipment needed to operate in the amount of $20,700;
and the construction of the new headworks location building in the amount of $52,474.

WHEREAS, Section15.2-2507, Code of Virginia, allows that a governing body may amend the budget
from time to time

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby amend the
FY 2013-2014 Operating Budget of the Sewer Fund to appropriate the funds for the emergency purchase
of computer software and equipment needed to operate, and the construction of the new headworks
location and building:

Sewer Fund Expenditures

Computer Expense
Capital Improvements
Net Increase in Budget

Sewer Fund Revenues
Use of Equipment Reserve

Net Increase in Budget

SECTION XIII:

  $ 20,700
     52,474
 $  73,174

  $  73,174

  $  73,174

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the Fiscal Year 2014
budget amendments are hereby adopted, and the monies necessary to fund it are hereby appropriated and
shall be certified by the Clerk of Council and maintained as an archive document with the official minutes
of the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia.

Amended this 13th  day of January 2014.

Attest:

Roxanne W. Casto, Town Clerk

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 13, 2014

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette
– aye.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to approve the 2014
Town Council meeting scheduled.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

4A – Consideration of the proposals received for the Cell Tower Agreements was tabled to the
next meeting.  Mrs. Puckette asked if they could borrow the needed money for the 2014
Priorities & Initiatives.  Mr. Gillespie advised that Council could do that but it would have to be
at least a 20 year loan.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to accept Option 2 from
Nextel as they are decommissioning their cell tower space on the 100,000 water tank.  Option 2 –
Nextel will remove everything except the equipment shelter and ice bridge.  Nextel will give the
Town the shelter and ice bridge free of charge.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Mr. Gillespie advised Council that he recommends a policy be crafted by staff and submitted to
Council for consideration of the Watch for Children signs.  VDOT no longer accepts a resolution
by the locality as a request to install the signs on the localities behalf.  Mr. Gillespie estimates
that including labor and materials, the sign installation on Isabelle Street will cost the Town
approximately $800 - $1000 from the Public Works budget.  Council gave consensus for this
installation and for staff to develop a policy for Council’s future consideration.

Mayor Harvey and Mr. Gillespie reported that a letter had been sent to the Appomattox County
Chamber of Commerce regarding their proposed ACT project and the plans being initiated by the
Town of Appomattox for its signage project.  Discussions between the Chamber of Commerce
and Town will continue regarding this project.

Mr. Gillespie outlined the next steps for the Town’s Economic Development Authority.  The
next meeting date has not been set as of yet.  The Authority will be discussing the items
identified in the Priority & Initiatives, creating a Vision and Mission Statement, Core Values and
a Leadership Philosophy, setting up and developing a plan of their next projects.  The Authority
will report to Council on a quarterly basis.

Mr. Gillespie provided an update on the Status of the Region 2000 Economic Development
Council since Bryan David, Executive Director’s departure on December 31, 2013.  Mr. David is
now in the Interim County Administrator for Orange County, Virginia.  There will be an
extensive selective process for a candidate that meets the qualifications and requirements to fill
the position.    At present, Mike Davidson, Economic Development Director for Campbell
County will fulfill the current vacancy.  Mr. Davidson is a member and Chair of the Region 2000
Marketing Committee.  Currently Mr. Davidson is setting up the protocol for the Town’s
Economic Development Authority.   The protocol should be established and in place by the end
of this week.

6  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 13, 2014

Mr. Gillespie explained that the Virginia Municipal League is supporting legislation being
introduced by Delegate Hugo in an attempt to re-write the Worker’s Compensation law.  Other
attempts have failed in the past.  Worker’s Compensation claims and the payout for services is
running rampant in Virginia.  The claims for Worker’s Compensation are much higher than that
for Medicaid.

Mr. Gillespie also provided an update on the Peckham, Guyton, Albers & Viets, Inc. (PGAV)
Retail Marketing Study.  There are two recommendations from the study worth considering.
PGAV strongly suggests having a market strategy to attract restaurants, hotels or even a theme
based hotel.  A marketing campaign could cost approximately $50,000.  Mr. Gillespie will obtain
a more detailed scope of work for the $50,000 cost.

Mr. Gillespie reported that he had met with Tom McClanahan, Project Manager for Hardees.  It
is Hardees intent to close on the property by the end of March 2014.  Construction will take 90-
120 days.  Hardees should be open by July 1.

Mr. Gillespie also informed Council that USDA has received the Preliminary Engineering
Report and Environmental Review from Reid Engineering for the Wastewater Improvement
Project.  It is possible that all of the comments from the required agencies would be completed
by the fall of 2014.  It is also possible that the project would be under construction in 2015.

Town Manager Update –

Mr. Gillespie informed Council that the Town has been awarded a $25,000 Community
Development Block Grant.  The grant could provide 1.4 million dollars of improvements to the
Meadowlark Area.

Citizen Comment period –
None

Council Concerns –
None

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adjourn at
8:45 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

