1  Special Call Council Meeting
Tuesday, February 10, 2009

At the Special Call Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on February 10, 2009 at 5:00
pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council members Bryan J.
Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky” Williams, Karl E.
Carter, Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.   Also in attendance were David T. Garrett, Jr., Town
Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order at 5:00 pm.

Mayor Harvey stated the purpose of the meeting as follows:
Closed Session – Pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the
purpose of discussion of the performance of specific public employee of the Town, specifically
being Employee A.

On a motion by Councilmember Williams, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry and with all
members present voting “aye”, Council voted to convene in closed session pursuant to §2.2-3711
(A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion of the
performance of specific public employee of the Town, specifically being Employee A.

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed or considered by this council.

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry and
with the members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 5:30 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey,
Mayor

