1  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, February 24, 2009

At the Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on February 24, 2009 at 6:00
pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council members Bryan J.
Baine, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky” Williams, Karl E. Carter and Jennifer
Jamerson-Scruggs.  Absent was N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry.  Also in attendance were Chad
Millner, Nina Beasley, Mary Lou Spiggle, Bobbie Mullins, Cliff Harvey, Stephanie James, Sarah
Watson, Freddy Godsey, Bobby Wingfield, Bob Hopkins, Jeff Elder, Carlton Duck, David
Garrett, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

On a motion by Councilmember Carter, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs and
with all Council Members present voting “aye”, Council voted to convene in Closed Session,
pursuant to §2.2-3711(A)7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of
consultation with legal counsel employed or retained by a public body regarding specific legal
matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel, such specific legal matters being
issues pertaining to the creation of a Utility Relief Rate program.

Vote:  Baine – absent, Mayberry – absent, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.  Motion carried.
*Note:  Councilmember Baine entered the closed session approximately 6:15 pm.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – absent, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

Mayor Harvey welcomed everyone to the workshop meeting at 7:00 pm.

Mayor Harvey invited everyone to attend a tour of the Appomattox County E911
Communication Building at the request of Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs.  The Council left
the meeting at approximately 7:10 pm and returned at 8:00 pm.

Freddy Godsey, Emergency Services Coordinator gave a brief presentation to council by
explaining the Emergency Management Plan adopted by the Appomattox County Board of
Supervisors in January 2009.  The Emergency Operation Plan will be presented to the council
members and one will be placed on file at the Town Office.

The Mayor and Council Members thanked Mr. Godsey and Mr. Wingfield for the tour and
presentation.

2  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, February 24, 2009

Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs requested that the annual Town auditing services be placed
on competitive professional services for the FY 10 audit.  Discussion ensued and hearing no
objection, staff will move forward with the creating a Request for Proposal (RFP) for the service.

The Appomattox Town Council gave reports and updates from Standing Committees:

Finance – Mr. McDearmon reported that the committee will be working on the FY 10 budget in
the coming weeks.

Fire & Safety – Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs reported on a proposal received by the Appomattox
Volunteer Fire Department to refurbish Engine 1 – 1990 Fire Truck. A recommendation will be
presented at the regular meeting on March 9, 2009.  Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs also reported on an
informative structure to increase the working knowledge of the emergency plan presented by
Freddy Godsey, Emergency Services Coordinator.  The committee has also begun discussing the
Pandemic Flu by gathering information and a brochure that has been process and remains on-
going.  The committee has also discussed a quarterly newsletter for town residents.

Ordinance – Mr. Carter reported that the Sign Ordinance remains in a rough draft format.

Personnel – Mr. Williams reported that the committee met to screen applications for the position
of Town Manager and has the applications to a manageable number, interview dates have been
set.  The transitional plan during the absence of a town manager will consist of a department
heads reporting to the chairperson of a committee on an as needed basis.

Street & Property - Mr. Baine reported that the breakroom downstairs is nearly complete.  There
has been some sidewalk repair on Church Street.  Kelly Hitchcock, Region 2000 will be working
on the long range pedestrian plan in March 2009 with the committee and citizen advisors of the
committee.

Utility Committee – Mayor Harvey reported for Mr. Mayberry that the SBR facility on Ethel
Street has received a Notice of Violation for Zinc.  The Department of Environmental Quality
would like the Town to enter into a non-binding Consent Order Agreement regarding the Zinc.
Charles Garrett will create a pilot program or Plan of Action to combat the zinc problem at the
plant.  The County of Appomattox will be sending a letter to the Town asking to use the entire
Stag Grant for the waterline from Concord to Appomattox.

Treasurer’s Report – None

Director of Tourism Report – Mr. Simmons reported he has been building relationships for the
past six days.  He met with Ms. Beckie Nix, National Park Service, Anne Dixon, and The Design
Group.  There has been something new and exciting each of the past six days.

3  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, February 24, 2009

Clerk’s Report – Attached.  Ms. Paulette requested direction from Council regarding the Request
for Proposals received for the Engineering Services – Basic Ordering Agreement.  The RFPs
were due and received on February 17th.  Council instructed the Clerk to provide each council
member with a copy and place the item on the March 9th agenda for discussion in Closed
Session.

The Town Manager’s report included:

1.   The check valve arrangement at the 100,000 gallon storage tank has proved to be

anything but usual.  The Utility Department continues to work on replacing the check
valves at the tank.

2.  Utility maps continue to be updated by the Utility Director and Crystal Parker.
3.  Brad White, DEQ completed the real time data of the well at the Kiddie Park.
4.  The pre-bid meeting will be held on Thursday, February 26, 2009 at the Town Office for

the SBR construction.

5.  Anderson & Associates continue to work on the groundwater study.
6.  Discussion of the sewer line to serve the Museum of the Confederacy property is

ongoing.

7.  The concrete manhole for the sewer line construction to serve A J Skateworld has been

ordered.  The owners are planning to connect in June or July 2009.

Town Attorney Report – none

Council Concerns – none

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Councilmember Williams and
with all members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 8:40 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey,
Mayor

