ref: reel_03_0717
date: 1980-04-14
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, April 14, 1980, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor R. C. Spiggle presiding. Those members present: R. C. Hubbard, R. L. Bass, M. E. Gordon, T. E. Conner, S. E. Carter, and T. W. Lawson. Those also present were: Beck Hudson, Reporter, Dr. James C. May & Bill Berkley, May-Hines & Associates, Judy Volturo, B. H. Mullins, Clerk, and W. R. Britton, Jr., Town Manager. The Agenda for the meeting was approved by a motion from Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Lawson, with all members voted aye, and the following additions added: New Business 3. Grants to Localities 4. Anti-Litter Control 5. Existing Section 8, Housing 6. Public Adm. Work Experience Program The minutes of the regular meeting held on March 10, 1980 was approved on a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard. Dr. James C. May reported to Council that the Sewerage Facility Grant has been approved by the State Water Control Board and is ready to go to the E.P.A., but the funds can not be made available until after September 15, 1980. With this delay in funding, we will have time to submit an amended application. He requested authorization to meet with the State Water Control and see if they are favorable to an amendment to the application. Dr. May also reported that his firm has drawn up a letter to Continental Can Company to inform them of our desire to locate on their property: they are attaching an informational sheet to them to explain the details of the Regional Sewerage Project to them and stress that the site on their property is the only available site. Council approved send the letter. Dr. May reported that due to the land acquisition being cheaper and the increased cost of the force main, we are still able to use the same figures for a project cost estimate. Bill Berkley reported to Council that the agreement with George E. Jones Construction Company has been executed and requested Council's permission to give them "notice to proceed". Mr. Bass made the motion, seconded by Mr. Conner, to give the "notice to proceed" to George E. Jones Construction Company for the Waterline Extension to the Water Tank. Conner-aye Carter-aye Gordon-aye Bass-aye Lawson -aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried unanimously. Mayor Spiggle reported on a request from Shelby Shelton, a teacher at the High School, to use the Depot for approximately three nights a week. It will not be a money-making project. Council felt that the request should be formally presented to them at the next meeting. Mr. Britton reported to Council that the "Board" will take the request under
chunk_id: 20793
record_id: 1813
page_number: 1

