1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 11, 2014

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, August 11, 2014
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Jr., C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N.H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Katrina Koerting, News and Advance; Stephanie James, Times Virginian; Carlton Duck
and Brian Moore, Alive Media TV; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; C. William Gillespie, Jr.,
Town Manager; and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments:

Mayor’s State of the Town Address:
As part of the Town Council and staff’s desire to communicate more effectively with our

citizens, we have elected to take time to present a brief “State of the Town” address to inform
you of some of the completed projects as well as ongoing and planned ones.

One of the great things to report is that over the last three years the budget has been

reduced 23% without loss of any services or raising personal property or real estate taxes.  We
have accomplished this thru reducing legal and engineering fees, having some projects
completed in house and staff and employee reductions.  We have also established necessary
reserves in all of the Town funds – general, water and sewer and are working to completely fund
all of them.  After many, many years of operating as a deficit, the sewer fund has also been
stabilized.

In the administrative area the council and staff worked for over a year to complete the
rezoning of the Town as well as reorganizing the landscaping and sign ordinances.  Out of this
rezoning council elected to institute a R-2 zoning to allow for small lot sizes and residences and
there is already a developer constructing a subdivision to meet these requirements.

Under the guidance of our interim Town Manager, Council began having annual
planning retreats.  We established mission and vision statements along with core values in the
initial retreat and started discussions of priorities and initiatives – essentially goals to achieve
and dreams to consider.  Council formed six Priority and Initiative committees with each council
person serving as a chair; finance, media and citizen communication, intergovernmental
cooperation and concerns, infrastructure, water park development, and town beautification and
development.

The ROSE program is one of the projects that blossomed from the Priority and Initiative

ideas.  This is the Roadway Opportunities for Sustainable Enhancements – businesses and

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 11, 2014

individuals sponsor a beautification garden in the selected VDOT right of way sites with signage
to recognize their sponsorship.

Also from planning retreats Council has recently initiated and formed a Planning
Commission and an Economic Development Authority.  The Planning Commission is currently
working, with assistance from the Region 2000 Local Government Council, to develop a
comprehensive plan for the Town.  The EDA has just put together business incentives and
performance agreements to help in attracting new business.  As a quick sidebar that has
occurred before these actions, the Town has recently welcomed for new businesses – Tractor
Supply, Dollar Tree, Murphy Oil and soon Hardee’s.

The Council is also joining with a consultant to design a master plan for improvements in

the Town including a new Kiddie Park pavilion and new playground equipment, possible metal
fencing for Abbitt Park, restoring the Depot to its original state and possibly redesigning the
Visitor Center space.  We have already been awarded a Community Development Block Grant
for areas in the Town with significant needs and concerns, with special focus on Meadowlark
subdivision.  The Town also participated in a Route 24 corridor study.  This is to hopefully see
this area to the National Park and Museum of the Confederacy greatly enhanced with road
improvements, garden sites and walking trails.

In the public works area you have already seen the new public works building as well as

the building to house the equipment and Abbitt Park has the new pavilion and stage cover
installed.  Also for well over two decades the Town has been under a consent order from DEQ
because of high Zinc content at the SBR treatment plant.  Over the last two years the plant
operators and the utility department have gotten this level below the required zinc level and the
consent order has been removed.

The public works department in conjunction with the Town staff have done a capital

improvements plan to include eventual closure of the Trickling Filter Plant with installation of a
pump station to the SBR plant, lining of sewer lines and replacement of sewer and water lines
that are needed.  This will also help control and eliminate excess storm water into the sewer
system.

All of these things are being accomplished while staff and the public works department

continue to provide the best services to you every day.  All of the planning, formation and
development of these committees, master plans, and capital improvement plans are for the long
term benefit of the Town.  It is to insure that when a new council or new staff or public works
group is eventually in place that there is continuity in services and growth with proper
maintenance of what is in place and the plans for the Town’s future.

Scheduled Public Appearances – None

Consent Agenda –
On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda with the addition of NB #3 – Consideration to approve the use of Brown, Edwards and

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 11, 2014

Company, LLP for $23,650 for the FY 2014 Annual Audit and NB #4 – Consideration to appoint
a Board of Directors for the ROSE project for the purposes of incorporation.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Unfinished Business –
Mr. Gillespie read Frank Wright, Town Attorney’s email regarding the liability associated with
the burned house on Sunnydale Avenue.

New Business –
On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to approve the
purchase of three (3) sewer flow meters for $25,250.00 and adopt the following resolution:

1.  Consideration to adopt a resolution amending the FY2014 - 2015 Operating Budget of the
Sewer Fund to appropriate funds for the purchase of flow meters in the amount of $25,250.

WHEREAS, Section15.2-2507, Code of Virginia, allows that a governing body may amend
the budget from time to time

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby
amend the FY 2014-2015 Operating Budget of the Sewer Fund to appropriate the funds for
the purchase of flow meters in the amount of $25,250

Sewer Fund Expenditures
Net Increase in Budget

Sewer Fund Revenues

Use of Reserves
Net Increase in Budget

$   25,250
$   25,250

$     25,250
            $     25,250

SECTION XIII:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the Fiscal
Year 2015 budget amendments are hereby adopted, and the monies necessary to fund it are
hereby appropriated and shall be certified by the Clerk of Council and maintained as an archive
document with the official minutes of the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia.
Amended this 11th  day of August 2014.
Attest:

Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk

VOTE:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 11, 2014

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to award the contract
to WEL, Inc. to remove the burned house on Sunnydale Avenue for $11,900 and adopted a
resolution amending the FY 2015 Operating Budget for the General Fund:

1.   Consideration to adopt a resolution amending the FY 2015 Operating Budget for the

General Fund for FY 2014-2015 for the demolition of the burned home on Sunnydale Avenue
in the amount of $12,000

WHEREAS, Section15.2-2507, Code of Virginia, allows that a governing body may amend
the budget from time to time

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby
amend the FY 2015 Operating Budget for the General Fund for FY 2014-2015 for the
demolition of the burned home on Sunnydale Avenue in the amount of $12,000

General Fund Expenditures
Property Maintenance & Construction
Net Increase in Budget

General Fund Revenues
Use of Undesignated Reserve
Net Increase in Budget

  $ 12,000
 $  12,000

$  12,000
$   12,000

SECTION XIII:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the Fiscal
Year 2015 budget amendments are hereby adopted, and the monies necessary to fund it are
hereby appropriated and shall be certified by the Clerk of Council and maintained as an archive
document with the official minutes of the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia.
Amended this 11th day of August 2014.
Attest:

Roxanne Casto, Town Clerk

VOTE:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Ms. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to appoint the
following people to the ROSE project Board of Directors:  Paul Harvey, Bill Gillespie, Jeff Elder
and Mary Lou Spiggle for the purposes of incorporating as a 501 (c) 3 status organization.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Town Manager Update –
Mr. Gillespie provided Council with a draft document explaining the changes to the meeting
structure.

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
August 11, 2014

Council will discuss this matter before the retreat and make changes in November.

Citizen Comment period –
None

Council Concerns –
Mr. Conner – In light of recent issues with the fence for Abbitt Park he stated that he believes
there should be a Community Parks advisory committee to give input before doing things within
the park.

Ms. Spiggle agreed that citizen input is better and thinks this is a good idea.

Ms. Puckette thanked Mayor Harvey for his words of the Town’s accomplishments.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn at 8:05 p.m.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

