1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
August 26, 204

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop Council meeting on Tuesday, August 26, 2014
at 7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Ronald C. Spiggle, W. H. Craft, Sara Carter, Gary Tanner, Samuel E. Carter
(Appomattox County Board of Supervisors),  Johnny Overstreet, County Attorney; Jeff Taylor,
Appomattox County Economic Development Director; John Spencer, Assistant County
Administrator; Carlton Duck, Stephanie James, Katrina Koerting, Frank Wright, Town Attorney;
Bill Gillespie, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the Council Workshop meeting to order.

Chairman Ronald C. Spiggle called the Board of Supervisors meeting to order.
*The County minutes reflect the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors motions.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to go into closed
session, along with the Board of Supervisors, pursuant to Section 2.2-373711 (A) 5 of the Code
of Virginia (1950), as amended, for the purpose of discussion concerning a prospective business
or industry or the expansion of an existing business or industry where no previous announcement
has been made of the business’ or industry’s interest in locating or expanding its facilities in the
community and pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 6 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as amended,
for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the investment of public funds where
competition or bargaining is involved, where, if made public initially, for the financial interest of
the governmental unit would be adversely affected.  For this closed session two 92) such new
prospective businesses or industries (one of which may locate on the Thomasville site) will be
discussed and neither has made a previous announcement of their intent or interest.  A report of
the status of the situation will be presented by the County’s Director of Economic Development
and the Town Manager.

Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Mayberry – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette –
yes.  Motion carried 6-0.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the members of the Appomattox Town Council hereby
certifies that to the best of each members knowledge:  (1)  Only public business matters lawfully
exempted from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed
meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as
were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered
by this council.

Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Mayberry – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette –
yes.  Motion carried 6-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
August 26, 204

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to approve the Performance
Agreement as written with a word change – “event”.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

Mr. Gillespie presented Council with a draft agenda for the annual council retreat tentatively
scheduled for October 17, 24 or 31.

Council discussed the new committee structure and meeting schedule again.  The workshop
meeting would be eliminated.  Council will vote to make this effective November 1, 2014.

Report from the Priority and Initiatives Chairs:

Communications – Mrs. Claudia G. Puckette:
Ms. Puckette is continuing to work on the details for the Town Picnic on Friday, September 26
from 6:00 p.m. – 8:00 p.m. at the W. M. Abbitt Memorial Park in Downtown Appomattox.

Relationships/Managed Growth – Mr. Steve T. Conner:
Mr. Conner is working on growth with the boundary line adjustment and would like to have a hot
dog social with the Board of Supervisors, School Board and Town Council on a Wednesday or
Thursday.

Infrastructure – Mr. N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry:
Mr. Mayberry reported that the Infrastructure Committee has not met recently.

Garden Spot – Ms. Mary Lou Spiggle:
Ms. Spiggle reported that the committee has not met recently however she and Mrs. Abbitt have
spoken several continues to move forward with garden spots.  Mr. Gillespie, Mayor Harvey,
Madeline Abbitt, Claudia Puckette and Ms. Spiggle will be meeting with the Spout Spring
Ruritan Club soon.

Finance – Mr. C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.:
Mr. McDearmon reported that the committee has not met since finalizing the budget.

Water Park – Mr. Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett:
Mr. Garrett reported that he will be discussing a feasibility study for the water park soon.

Standing Committee Updates:
Finance & Planning – did not meet in August.

Physical Development Committee – met this afternoon to discuss the Performance Agreement.

Staff Member Updates:
Town Clerk – none

Town Treasurer – none

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
August 26, 204

Town Manager – none

Council Concerns:
Mr. Conner asked if the Town had a brush collection schedule.  Mr. Gillespie advised that he
would obtain it from Mr. Elder and provide it to him.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 7:50 p.m.
with no further business.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

