# REGULAR MEETING – July 12, 2004

Page 2 of 8

SL%

me Sly 12, 2004 a

2. Ordinance Committee - Chairman Wilson, reported that-the committee has -
not met since he Is ‘not sure of the charge of the committee. He put before
each council member a proposed resolution to help identify the job
description/charge of each committee for adoption. .

3. Utility Committee - Chairman McDedrmon, reported that the committee met
last Thursday with all members present including Bif Johnson, Hill Jones and
David Garrett to discuss copper limits. . Hurt & Proffitt is drafting-a letter to
DEQ informing them of what has been done and what will be done.

"Ona recommendation by Councilmember McDearmon, Chairman of the Utility
- Committee council voted to approve the draft letter prepared by DEQ
concerning the Copper Limits. All members present voting aye. Motion
carried. ; .

The committée also discuss easements on the South Church Street property
sewer line replacement.

4. Finance Cornmittee — Chairman absent.
. 5. Fire & Safety Committee - None.
-. 6. Personnel Committee — None,

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember
Mitchell, Council voted to approve the out of town residential water connection
for R. C, Stephens on Rt, 677. All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Councilmember McDearmon nominated Marvin Mitchell, as President Pro-Tem
(Vice Mayor), seconded. by Councilmember Bennett. On a motion by
Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Counclimember Bennett, to close the
nominations. Ail members present voting aye. Motion carried. ‘

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember ~
Lawson, Council voted to elect Marvin Mitchell by acclamation to the post of
’ President Pro-Tem (Vice-Mayor) for the Town of Appomattox. All members
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On.a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember

McDearmon, Council voted to approve the request for tax exempt status by the

Theonomic Reformation Institute, All members present voting aye. Motion
“carried,