# REGULAR MEETING – July 12, 2004

Page 6 of 8

SUL

[ons ~REGULAR- MEETING. August 9/2004. sos gpengiaes eran aga a ae eran

The Appomattox Town Council met in regular session on Monday, August 9,
2004 at 7:30 p.m. at the Municipal Building with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present: Joyce Bennett, N. H. Mayberry, Marvin Mitchell, John Wilson,
Steve Lawson. Absent: C. L. McDearmon, Jr. .

Others present: Christie Chapman, News & Advance, Chad Denton, Times
Virginian, Charles Garrett, Larry Mobley, Carlton Duck, Derek Norfield, A. David
Hawkins, Town. Attorney, David T, Garrett, Jr, Town Manager and Roxanne W.
Mundy, Clerk,

Mayor Spiggle called the meeting to order.
Mayor Spiggle began with a prayer.

On a motion by Councilmember Bennett, seconded by Councilmember Mitchell,
Council voted to approve the consent agenda of August 9, 2004, All members
present voting aye. Motion carried,

There were no public comments.
There were no appearance before Council.: -

On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry,
Council voted to convene in closed session, pursuant to Section.2.2-3711 (A) 7 of
the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of consultation with
legal counsel employed or retained by the council regarding specific legal matters
requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel, specifically being legal
issues relating to proposed guidelines set by the Department of Environmental
Quality for zinc and copper issues at the Wastewater Treatment Plant on Church
Street and a report from the Town Manager regarding easements for the S.
Church Street sewer line replacement project. All members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby
certifies that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business
matters lawfully exempted under the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, and
(2) only such public business matters as were identified in the motion by which

_ the closed meeting was convened were heard, discussed or considered in the
meeting by this council.