# PUBLIC MEETING – July 12, 2004

Page 1 of 2

Qe

PUBLIC HEARING — JULY 12, 2004

A public hearing was held on Monday, July.12, 2004 at 7: 00 p.m. at the
Municipal Building with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present: Joyce Bennett, Marvin Mitchell, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.,
Steven E. Lawson. Absent: Norman H. Mayberry and John L. Wilson.

Others present: Pastor and Mrs. Paul Michael Raymond, Constance Raymond,
Paul Coviello, Buz and Deb Dupont, John Lombardi, Larry Mobley, Charles

Garrett, Carlton Duck, Derek Norfield, Frank Wright, Town Attorney, David T.

Garrett, Jr., Town Manager and Roxanne W. Mundy, Town Clerk.

"With a majority of council members present Mayor Spiggle open the public

hearing in accordance with §58.1-3651 of the Code of Virginia to hear the
request of the Theoriomic Reformation Institute for exemption of Real Estate

' Taxes for the property located at tax map no. 6-4-A-5(A)201, value $17,000.00

with a yearly tax. assessment of $25.50.

Public Comnients were received from Pastor Raymond of the Reformed Bible .
Church and Chief Executive Officer of the Thegnomic Reformation Institute. He

_ stated that the Theonomic Reformation Institute is a lawful Christian educational

institute registered under the religious clause of the federal government of article
501(c)3 and the non-profit religious organization also incorporated asa Virginia

_ Corporation and acknowledged by the federal bureau tax exemptions and the:
_ IRS as such.

Paul Coviello, Deacon and Preacher at the Reformed Bible Church asked for a
favorable decision and thanked council for the opportunity to speak.

Mr. Wright, Town Attorney asked council to consider the following:

1. Whether the organization is exempt from taxation pursuant to §501(c)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954? Pastor Raymond replied “Yes,
we are tax exempt under the 501(c) 3 status”. Oo

2. Whether a current annual alcoholic beverage license for serving ;
alcoholic beverages has been issued by the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board to such organization, for use on such property? Pastor
Raymond responded “No, sir”.

3. Whether any director, officer, or employee of the organization is paid
compensation in excess of a reasonable allowance for salaries or other
compensation for personal services which such director, officer, or |
employee actually renders? Pastor Raymond responded “No”. |