1  Council Workshop Meeting
May 26, 2009 – 7:00 p.m.

A Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Tuesday, May 26, 2009 at
7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Bryan J. Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, John T.
“Plicky” Williams, Karl E. Carter and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.

Others present:  Stephanie James, Carlton Duck, Derek Norfield, Frank Wright, Town Attorney;
Bart S. Van Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager; Roxanne Paulette, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711(A) 6 of the Code of Virginia,
1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the investment of public
funds where competition or bargaining is involved, where, if made public initially, the financial
interest of the governmental unit would be adversely affected, specifically being the discussion
of the proposal submitted by Appomattox County regarding the waterline from Concord to
Appomattox.

Vote:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye, Jamerson-
Scruggs – aye.  Motion carried.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

 Vote:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

Mayor Harvey reported that the Town is ready to craft a response letter to the Appomattox
County Board of Supervisors regarding the Concord/Appomattox Waterline.  Mr. Van
Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager will make a presentation on June 8, 2009 providing an analysis of
the information in the letter.  Mayor Harvey publicly invited everyone to attend the meeting for a
new format of information.

For the record, Karl Carter noted descent of the letter being sent to the county.

Council Member Williams again invited the public to the meeting on June 8, 2009.

On a recommendation of the Utility Committee Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted to
approve Amendment II to the Memorandum of Understanding to the EDA/Recreational Park
agreement between the Town of Appomattox, Appomattox County Board of Supervisors and the
Economic Development Authority.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2  Council Workshop Meeting
May 26, 2009 – 7:00 p.m.

Committee Reports –
Finance Committee – Mr. McDearmon reported that there will be a Public Hearing on the FY
2010 Budget on Monday, June 8, 2009 at 7:00 p.m.

Fire & Safety Committee – Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs reported that the committee has been working
on the town newsletter that will be mailed in July 2009.

Ordinance – none

Personnel – Mr. Williams reported that the committee met on May 20, 2009 and interviews for
the Town Treasurer will be held on June 1, 2009.

Street & Property – Mr. Baine reported that five (5) new street lights have been installed on Old
Courthouse Road.  The committee continues to hammer out language for the Tree Board
Ordinance.  The sidewalk repairs on Church Street from Confederate Blvd to the Railroad Tracks
are nearly complete.

Utility – Mr. Mayberry reported that the SBR facility is currently being repaired.

Staff Reports –
Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager gave highlights into department head staff reports as
well as his own.

Council Concerns –
Mr. Baine publicly thanked the Courthouse Theatre for the production “Steel Magnolias”.  The
theatre has been a great addition to the community.

Mayor Harvey reminded the audience that Will Simmons and Roxanne Paulette will be co-chairs
of the 37th Annual Railroad Festival and we need as many volunteers in order to improve the
festival.

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Councilmember Williams,
Council voted to adjourn at 8:45 pm.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

