ref: reel_03_0640
date: 1981-10-12
content: On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to deny the request from Mrs. Hubert Godsey for an abatement on her water bill caused by a leak on her property, and all members voting aye.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to request the Highway Department to put two handicapped parking signs, one on either side of Court Street in front of the Courthouse and mark-off one parking space in front of the Town Office, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Britton briefed Council on the Virginia Water Projects grants and the possibility of referring the grant to Pamplin.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to table Item 4, New Business, until more information could be obtained for the next meeting, and all members voted aye. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to loop those waterlines on First Street and Second Street and tie them back into Ferguson Street.

Conner-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to appoint the following:

1. Samuel Carter
2. Morris Gordon
3. Webb Babcock
4. Murrell Ferguson
5. Cliff Harvey

with the first three to serve as the viewers on the closing of the two streets as requested by H. G. Lawson, and the last two, to serve as alternates.

Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to apply for the HUD Grant on the basis of, if the Town receives the grant the Engineers will be paid and if not, we don't pay them, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

Council requested Mr. Britton to set up a meeting between Thomasville and the Town Council and the council members will attend if possible.

There being no further business to come before Council, the meeting adjourned at 10:30 P.M.
chunk_id: 20729
record_id: 1749
page_number: 1

