ref: reel_03_0638
date: 1981-10-12
content: Regular Meeting - October 12, 1981

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, October 12, 1981, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: W. H. Carson, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, T. E. Conner, and T. W. Lawson. Absent - R. C. Hubbard.

Also present were: Vic Bosiger, ViKas Communications, Bill Hunter, Jim Pugh, Mike Weiss, Ronald Coleman, Roy Franklin, Frances Paulette, Judy Volturn, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Agenda was approved with the following additions: Old Business; Item 10. Permit to operate Amusement Center, 11. Planning Commission recommendation on M-1 Zone; New Business, Item 7, Thomasville, 8. Surety Bond-Continental Telephone Co., 9. Section 10.4, Town Code amendment, 10. Waterline connection on First Street and Ferguson Street, on a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

The minutes of the September 14, meeting and the Special Call of September 18th, were approved as submitted.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council approved the Financial Statement for September, 1981, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Hunter reported on their progress with the Arco, Inc. and the sale of the Cable TV System.

Mr. Bosiger, of ViKas Communications spoke to Town Council concerning his firm and what they were doing with regard to the Cable System.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to grant an extension of thirty (30) days to the Farmers National Bank to help facilitate the sale of the Cable System.

Conner-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council tabled Item 2, Old Business, until the next meeting, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to approve the Personnel Policies but not the Pay Plan, as revised by the Local Government Management Relations for the Town of Appomattox. (See copy in Council file dated October, 1981)
Conner-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

The decision on whether the waterline for the National Park Service should be constructed on the east or west side of Route 24, was referred to the Water Committee for their study and recommendations to Council.
chunk_id: 20727
record_id: 1747
page_number: 1

