1  Appomattox Town Council

Budget Work Session
April 18, 2023

The Appomattox Town Council held a Budget work session on Tuesday April 18, 2023, at 5:45
p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, with Mayor Conner, presiding. (late arriving)

Members present: Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett,
Nathan A. Simpson (late arriving), and Claudia G. Puckette

Others present: Mr. Bill Jamerson, Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager
and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mr. Garrett, Vice-Mayor called the budget work session to order.

Mrs. Ray provided a one sheet document exhibiting all the changes thus far. She explained the
overall General Fund increases and amounts needed from savings/revenue. The biggest
differences are in the General Fund due to the renovation of the depot. Some of the expenses will
be before June 30, 2023 and some will be after June 30, 2023.

The Water Fund proposed use of undesignated funds for FY2024 is less than FY2023.

The Sewer Fund proposed use of undesignated funds for FY2024 is less than FY2023.

The water and sewer rates will also be advertised for a public hearing before an effective date of
July 1, 2023.

Mrs. Ray needs to know if there are any other items to be considered for the proposed FY2024
budget.

The Council discussed alcohol related activities at events which received town
funding/sponsorship.  Council agreed the only approach for the Town at this time would be to
address the special event permit for any future events.

Council had a general discussion of the total budgeted amounts in the General fund, Water fund,
and Sewer fund.  Mr. McGhee explained the cost-of-living allowance covers all employees.  The
funding proposed also addressed any compression issues created in the public works department
by addressing the minimum hourly rate and the proposed budget will increase the hourly rate to
$15.00 per hour for part-time employees.

Mrs. Casto explained the timeline for the public hearing, scheduled for May 23, 2023.  The
informative packets of the proposed FY 2024 annual budget for the Town of Appomattox will be
available on May 3, 2023.  Adoption of the FY 2024 budget is scheduled for June 12, 2023.

The Town Council thanked Mrs. Ray and staff for their hard work on the budget.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Budget Work Session
April 18, 2023

Mayor Conner asked Mr. Bill Jamerson if he would like to speak to Council.

Mr. Bill Jamerson said he came here hoping to address the Mayor and Council. Several weeks
ago, I was told that you’d be having a meeting tonight at 5:45 pm. I asked Mr. McGhee when
Council would be discussing the museum and was informed it had been voted down at the last
meeting. That kinda knocked me down a little bit. How was it voted? 5-1, 3-2 or what? Has
anyone bothered to call Dr. Havens in Richmond to let him know his formal request had been
denied? Have those things happened? Was it taken to a vote? By consensus? What happened to it
since it was a formal request?

Mr. McGhee said the request has not been responded to and we do not notify requestors until the
budget is approved.

Mrs. Ray explained that tonight, the Town Council is still in the planning process.

Mr. Jamerson further said whether it has been voted on, consensus or not, was it even talked
about?  I take that personal-of all the volunteers that have spent countless hours over the last 3 ½
years trying to get the organization back to where it use to be. I think the people that have given
$200,000-600,000, it’s a real kick in the teeth and that the Council to not do something. For a
pledge of 15 years or 5 years, it’s a non-profit. To not do anything is just horrible. I ask you to
reconsider even if it is $5,000 for a one-year commitment. People in this town and community
have committed $600,000 and for the town not to even give a $1. I have talked to some of you
about how important this is to the community, and nobody operates on the income that comes in
the door. It’s individuals, businesses, and corporations that support these things. I just think/beg
you to find $5000 somewhere to make some commitment to the museum. It’s just terrible. It's
terrible. I am hurt personally and for all the people who have put time in this. I go back to when
Dr. Paul Harvey started this. I’ve spent hours and hours and it seems like there is no appreciation
for it. It hurts. I beg you to find at least $5,000.

Mayor Conner thanked Mr. Jamerson for his comments.

Mr. McGhee asked Council if they had any additional items for staff?

Mr. Simpson asked if “we” (council) wants to give the American Civil War Museum $5,000 for
a year?  There was not a motion or a second to Mr. Simpson’s request.

Council discussed Mr. Jamerson’s request.  Questions were asked regarding ways to determine
the impact of the American Civil War Museum on the meals tax, lodging tax, and other taxes.
Staff explained that it is very difficult to know the impact of those sources of revenue because of
one location.  Council discussed the “Welcome Center” initiative taken around three (3) years
ago to help encourage tourists to visit downtown.  At the conclusion of that initiative, the
Council expressed their support of the welcome center.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Budget Work Session
April 18, 2023

Again, Council discussed donations to the organizations also funded by the County for the same
amount, funding for public safety, and the term double-taxation, when it is using revenue
generated by separate governing bodies for the same charitable organizations.  At the conclusion
of the final budget meeting, there was not a consensus by Council to budget funds for the
American Civil War Museum for FY 2024.

Mrs. Puckette called for the point of order.  Mr. Simpson made a motion, seconded by Mrs.
Puckette, Council voted to close the budget meeting. All members present voting aye. Motion
carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

