1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
April 18, 2023

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, April 18, 2023 at 6:30
p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett,
Nathan A. Simpson, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present: Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager and Roxanne W.
Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

DISCUSSION:

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to advertise a public
hearing notice for the FY2024 Annual Budget for the Town of Appomattox on Tuesday, May 23,
2023 at 6:30 pm, with a planned adoption on June 12, 2023.
All members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

COUNCIL COMMENTS:

Timothy W. Garrett – Reminded Council of our Vision & Mission Statements. We need to be
reminded of that. We are going to disagree about things, but we need to stick together and move
our town forward.

Mary Lou Spiggle-none

Nathan A. Simpson – none

James J. Boyce – Thanks for the prayers and concerns for surgery on Thursday, April 20, 2023.

Jane T. Allen - none

Claudia G. Puckette - none

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS:

Finance and Planning-Mrs. Puckette reports the FY2024 Annual Budget is headed to public
hearing.

Physical Development-Mr. Garrett is getting a few phone calls regarding the amount of time the
Jamerson-Lewis contractor is spending in the truck.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
April 18, 2023

Mr. McGhee raised this issue with the contractor and the architect. It is a great observation by
the public. We are trying to get things back on track. There were a few miscommunications
regarding the soffits not matching up. The resolution is to run entire lengths for the soffits.

Mr. Conner had a request to put a rail-cam on the depot. I referred them to Mr. McGhee.

ARPA-none

STAFF REPORTS:

Mr. Elder had one item but could not attend tonight. Mr. McGhee will cover the item in his
report.

Kim Ray-She provided the March 2023 financial report-75% of the year. The General Fund is
running about $400,000 ahead of projected revenues. The Water Fund is still waiting for the
Church St Waterline project to close with USDA/Rural Development. The Sewer Fund is also
healthy and there are about $200,000 in projects to do before June 30, 2023.

Mrs. Ray explained the ARPA funding worksheet - Captured everything at the top of the sheet.
The Sheriff’s Office is moving along with the purchase of the vehicle. The dates are December
31, 2024 for obligation of projects and December 31, 2026 for all projects to be paid.

On behalf of Mr. Elder, Mr. McGhee said as far as the real estate acquisition, he has spoken with
the manager about asking price and the survey should be done this week. Rob was asked about
the decals on the tanks and indicated it was not a sign. Also, know that a sign that has been
sitting for 2 years is basically grandfathered in. If it is moved, you lose the grandfathering clause.

Mr. McGhee also reported on the following items:

  Christy and Rob received a request for a trailer at Iceland’s. Mrs. Briceland isn’t happy
with him or Rob currently. She explained that the Town allowed this to occur during the
Railroad Festival. Mr. McGhee explained there is a difference between 3 days and 6
months. Mrs. Allen agreed, she understands that all campgrounds are full at this time.

  The Church Street Waterline is slowly moving. It is still in the Atlanta office for

approval.

  The train depot floor joists all need to be replaced on the back side of the depot at the cost
of $36,000 including the material and labor. The roofer still needs to work on mockups,
and they are due to the architect. Yesterday, the Town received the Historical paint
analysis. It goes back to 1923. It had 4 colors in 1923. The same colors as now would be
no charge. If the Town wants to go back to the 4 original colors, there will be a price
change. He asked them to put together a price/quote for that.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
April 18, 2023

  The Architectural/Engineering study for the Town Office building does qualify for

ARPA funding-price is around $23,500.





Jeff has requested $65,000 - $75,000 in additional ARPA funds for a mobile generator
through EVA.

Just a heads up-the Appomattox Chamber of Commerce is without a head/leader
currently. They are in a very difficult spot at this moment.

ADJOURNMENT:

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at 7:10 pm. All
council members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

