1  Appomattox Town Council

Budget Work Session
April 10, 2023

The Appomattox Town Council held a Budget work session on Monday, April 10, 2023, at 5:45
p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia.

Members present: Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett,
Nathan A. Simpson, and Claudia G. Puckette, Mayor Richard Conner

Others present: Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager and Roxanne W.
Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the budget work session to order.

Discussion/Topics:

1.  Mr. McGhee discussed with Council the possibility of conducting an Architectural and
Engineering Study of the Town Office building. The study will take a complete look at
the entire building—HVAC, windows, and the possibility of an elevator and expanding
office/space downstairs. The estimated cost is $23,500. There is the possibility of using
ARPA funding.

Town Council wants input after a study is completed. Mr. Garrett stated an elevator could
cost $400-500,000. Nathan Simpson would like Council to consider other options of
buildings.

2.  Additional Deputy-Mrs. Ray explained she needs direction from Council if they would
like to include the funding in the FY2024 budget or use ARPA funding. After much
discussion, Council agreed to take the next 6 months to meet with the County of
Appomattox and come up with 5-year plan (CIP) for emergency (Public Safety) services.

The Council reached consensus to table the topic of an additional deputy and consider a
budget amendment at a later date, if necessary.

3.  Mr. McGhee explained how difficult it has become to give merit raises. Mrs. Casto

explained the methodology for suggesting a 7% Cost of Living Adjustment increase for
Town employees/positions. Mr. Simpson stated his concurrence with 7% but indicated a
desire to look at the compensation for the Public Works Department. Mr. Garrett stated a
desire to see a 9% scenario. Staff will prepare a scenario for 9%, look at public works
with starting hourly rate of $19/hour and address any compression issues that might arise.

Jane T. Allen, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, and Claudia G. Puckette were all
ok with 9% and minimum $19/hr.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Budget Work Session
April 10, 2023

4.  DONATIONS

Mrs. Ray discussed with Council the Community Funding requests received for FY2024
and advised she needed input for budgeting purposes $10,000 Railroad Festival; $10,000
Experience Appomattox and $15,000 American Civil War Museum

The American Civil War Museum requests $15,000 per year for five (5) years. The
Historical Society sent in a letter of support for the American Civil War Museum.

The Council discussed their views regarding whether the American Civil War Museum is
a business or non-profit organization. Mrs. Ray advised that the American Civil War
Museum is considered a non-profit 501(c)3 organization. The American Civil War
Museum charges admission and has a gift shop. Providing the funding for the museum
could open the town up to future donations to all the other non-profit organizations in the
town.

The Council also discussed the need to raise the amount of funds needed for Christmas
decorations. Mr. Elder explained due to the downtown revitalization project, more
lighting poles would need to be decorated.

The Council discussed a joint effort between The Town and the Appomattox Tourism
Committee to revamp the tourism website. Mr. Simpson explained this would only be
contingent if the Appomattox Tourism committee agrees to take the lead on the project.

The Council also held a brief discussion of creating a methodology (a percentage of the
budget) for donations. The Council recognizes the Fourth of July Fireworks and
Christmas decorations as community donations. All other requests would be charitable
donations.

Council discussed at length their views on fiscal responsibility, the number of current
town projects and those on the horizon. They also discussed the term double taxation and
the Town and County each funding/donating the same amount to the same organizations.

The consensus of Council appears to be to continue funding the Appomattox Railroad
Festival at $10,000; the Appomattox Tourism Committee—Experience Appomattox, as
the Town’s marketing campaign for $10,000; and $3,500 contingent upon a joint
agreement to revamp the tourism website. These amounts will be considered charitable
donations for FY2024.

5.  Tax Rates/Water and Sewer Rates-The Council discussed the Town’s real estate tax rate
currently $0.11/$100 of the assessed value. To reduce the tax rate by .01 (penny) the
Town’s revenue would decrease by $15,000. Council discussed lowering the tax rate as a
way to encourage people to move into the Town and to incentivize growth. Mrs. Ray,
Treasurer, explained the new reassessment is scheduled for 2026. The Town will need to

3  Appomattox Town Council

Budget Work Session
April 10, 2023

consider those reassessments and choose to lower, equalize or raise the real estate tax
rate.

The personal property tax rate of $0.45/$100 of the assessed value will reduce the
Town’s anticipated revenue for FY2024 by $3,000. If the rate were raised by $0.01
(penny) it is anticipated the Town would lose only $400.

Council also discussed the water and sewer rates proposed by the recent study performed
by Hurt & Proffitt.

The consensus of Council appears to be leaving the real estate tax rate at $0.11/$100 of
the assessed value; the personal property rate at $0.45/$100 of the assessed value;
increasing the water rate by 3% every 3 years, beginning July 1, 2025.

            The next meeting will be the final budget meeting.

There was a discussion regarding a quorum for April 25, 2023.Several members have
medical conflicts and out of town engagements. Council gave consensus to hold the April
Workshop on April 18, 2023 at 5:45 pm and 6:30 pm instead of April 25, 2023.

With no further business the budget work session was adjourned.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

