1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 11, 2023

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, December 11,
2023, at 6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Conner, presiding.

Members present:  Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Claudia G. Puckette, Mary Lou G.
Spiggle, and Timothy W. Garrett.

Absent:  Nathan A. Simpson

Others: Hailey Fox, Brown Edwards; Carlton Duck, Alive Media; Dana Glover, Kim Ray,
Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager; Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

Reverend Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Mayor Conner welcomed everyone to the meeting.  The Town has accomplished a lot this year.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Hailey Fox with Brown Edwards appeared before the Town Council to provide an overview of
the final Fiscal Year 2023 Town Audit.

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, the Town Council voted to adopt the
consent agenda as presented for December 11, 2023.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business
None

Council Standing Committee Reports:

ARPA: none

Finance and Planning Committee: none

Physical Development Committee: none

Citizen Comment: none

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 11, 2023

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. McGhee reviewed his email of December 8, 2023, with the Town Council.

Council Comment:

Mr. Boyce:  Asked that you keep the people of Tennessee in your prayers, and they try to pick up
the pieces from the Tornado.  We need to cast the net of care a little further.

Ms. Allen: Thank you for being so nice and guiding her this past year.  She is excited to see the
progress.  Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to everyone.

Mr. Garrett:  none

Ms. Spiggle:  Merry Christmas and a Happy and Prosperous New Year.

Ms. Puckette:  The Town has had success this year due to the Town Staff.  We should be proud
of the things accomplished for the community.

N. Simpson:  absent

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, the Council voted to adjourn at 7:30
pm.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

