# REGULAR MEETING – September 13, 2004

Page 4 of 4

5$o

a ~~ WORKSHOP MEETING ~ September 28,.2004.— oop nage sna och ee pea

The Appomattox Town » Council he held a Workshop Meeting ¢ on mi Tuesday, September 28,
2004 at.7:00 p.m. with Mayor Spiggle, presiding. :

Members present: Joyce B. Bennett, N. H. Mayberry, M, H, Mitchell, C. L. McDearmon,
Jr., J. L. Wilson, S. E. Lawson.

Others present: David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager, Frank A. Wright, Jr., Town
Attorney, Larry Mobley, Chad Denton, Times Virginian, Carlton Duck and Roxanne W.
Mundy, Town Clerk.

Mayor Spiggle called with meeting to order.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Mitchell,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2~3711(A) 7 of the
Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel
employéd or retained by the council regarding specific legal matters requiring the
provision of legal advice by such counsel, specifically being legal issues relating to
negotiations of easements for. the South Church Street sewer line replacement project, °
legal issues relating to negotiations for the recovery of damages to the negligent design
of the Wastewater Treatment Plant on Ethel Street, discussion of the present liability of
the Town Council for employee claims under the Fair Labor Standards Act. All members
present voting aye. Motion carried. .

‘Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that

to the best of each members knowledge: (1) only public business matters lawfully
exempted under the Virginia Freedom of Information Act, and (2) only such public
business matters as were identified in the motion by which the closed meeting was
convened were heard, discussed or considered in the meeting by this council.
VOTE: Bennett ~ aye, Mayberry ~ aye, Mitchell - aye, McDearmon ~ aye, —
Wilson — aye, Lawson ~ aye.

On.a motion by Councilmember Lawson, Chairman of the Street & Property Committee,
the committee recommends approving the purchase of 12 Christmas Banner for
downtown at the cost of $66.40 each from Downtown Graphics. All members present
voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Bennett, seconded by Councilmember Lawson, Council
voted to adjourn at 8:12 p.m. All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

vatd C, Digs : Ko (KL Dunn
Ronaid C. Spiggle, Mayor Roxanne W. Mundy, CMC