1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 31, 2014

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop Council meeting on Monday, March 31, 2014
(due to weather conditions on March 25, 2014) at 7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal
Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Frank Wright, Town Attorney, Katrina Koerting, News & Advance; Alive Media TV;
Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; Bill Gillespie, Jr., Town
Manager, and Roxanne W. Casto, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Mr. Gillespie provided an update from the Town’s Economic Development Authority meeting
held on March 20, 2014.  It was a good meeting, very positive and they have a lot to do.  Mr.
Gillespie also provided an update on the Thomasville building.  The building is costing $350,000
to maintain annually.

The Appomattox Town Planning Commission is having their first meeting this Thursday, April
3, 2014 along with the Region 2000 Local Government Council who will be assisting with a
Comprehensive Plan.

Mr. Gillespie provided an update from the VML Legislative Session.  There are new storm water
regulations, whereby you can elect not to have your own program.  Appomattox County will not
run their program.  Mr. Gillespie will administer the plan for the Town of Appomattox.   There
will be no Real Estate tax if there was a loss of spouse in the military.  Non-profit groups will not
have to report Meals Tax on the 1st 100,000 of gross receipts.  Boundary Line adjustment letters
will no longer have to be sent certified.  There were 4 bills introduced (HB371, HB344, SB174,
SB45) attempting to change the formula for BPOL and Machinery and Tools or drop it all
together.

Mr. Gillespie provided an update on the Community Development Block Grant project.  The
Town has been awarded $25,000 for a planning grant.  Staff met with the Department of Housing
and Community Development to finalize the budget.  The Local Government Council will run
the program.  The community is very excited about the project.  The Town has two (2) excellent
citizen representatives from the area on the committee.  The rest of 2014 will consist of gathering
data.  The Town will apply in March 2015 and grants are awarded in July 2015.

Mr. Gillespie prepared a letter to be sent to Governor McAuliffe regarding the Virginia General
Assembly adjourning without passing a budget.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to send the prepared
letter to Governor McAuliffe.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 31, 2014

Report from Priority & Initiatives Committee Chairs:

Water Park – Mr. Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett:
Mr. Garrett reported that he and Mr. Gillespie will be visiting the Splash Valley in Roanoke,
Virginia on April 10.

Finance – Mr. C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.:
Mr. McDearmon reported that the met with Mr. Gillespie and Ms. Wilkes to discuss the General
Fund and Water and Sewer Funds and to set up the budget.

Garden Spot – Ms. Mary Lou Spiggle:
Ms. Spiggle reported that the committee has been established.  They will be meeting on April 16,
2014 at 5:30 p.m. with Proctor Harvey.

Infrastructure – Mr. N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry:
Mr. Mayberry reported that he met with Mr. Gillespie to discuss the list of items on the Priorities
and Initiatives.  Some of the items will be passed on to the EDA at their next meeting.  Anything
the Planning Commission or Economic Development Authority does will come back to council
for their approval.

Relationships/Managed Growth – Mr. Steve T. Conner:
Mr. Conner reported that the Town hosted a Legislative Dinner on March 27, 2014.  His
committee will also be presenting ideas to coordinate with other community activities including
the public schools by speaking to government classes and job shadowing with Juniors and
Seniors.

Communications – Mrs. Claudia G. Puckette:
Mrs. Puckette reported that the Town Council had a wonderful time of fellowship last Thursday
at the Legislative Dinner.  Her committee is hoping to develop a newsletter to be mailed with the
water bills to aid in communication regarding things going on with council.  She hopes to have
an informal picnic for the community to share hopes and dreams for our town.  She welcomes
participation from the community on her committee.

Standing Committee Updates:
Finance & Planning:
Mr. McDearmon reported that the committee met on March 10, 2014.  Town Council is working
on the budget for FY 2015.  Town representatives attended a luncheon hosted by Congressman
Hurt on March 19, 2014 at the Spring House.  Mr. McDearmon and Mr. Mayberry attended a
meeting at the CVCC Appomattox Center hosted by Dr. Capps also on March 19, 2014.  The
Finance & Planning committee discussed at their March 10, 2014 meeting the Priority and
Initiatives, street dedication for Hardees, Tiger Fuel Property, the burned house on Sunnydale
Avenue and a possible cigarette tax.  Staff and Council representatives would be meeting with

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 31, 2014

the Town of Farmville on April 4, 2014.  The Treasurer provided her monthly report at the
March 10, 2014 committee meeting.

Physical Development Committee:
Mr. Mayberry reported that the committee met today, March 31, 2014 and discussed a Chicken
(Livestock) Ordinance, the plat for Hardees, received an update on the burned house on
Sunnydale Avenue, update on Dollar Tree and reviewed the scope of work presented by HDLA
for the Route 24 Corridor.  The committee also reviewed the FY 2015 General Fund as a part of
the budget process.

Mr. Jeff Elder, Facilities Director recapped the visit from the railroad train station.  The Town
will begin a restoration process of the depot. This will include repairing and painting the roof
(ceiling) inside the current visitor’s center, relocating the current Visitor’s Center to the lower
end after remodeling that end, looking into grants to help with remodeling. The Town will also
advertise a Request for Proposals for future businesses to lease the large space (current Visitor’s
Center).  It is the desire of the Town to restore the depot to its original colors and plans.

On a recommendation of the Physical Development Committee, Council voted to authorize the
purchase of a dump truck with a not to exceed amount of $133,500.  Roll Call Vote:  Garrett –
aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion
carried 6-0.

On a recommendation of the Physical Development Committee, Council voted to authorize the
security renovations at the Town Office and Public Works front office with a not to exceed
amount of $10,000.  Roll Call Vote: Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry –
aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Staff Member Updates:
Town Clerk – none

Town Treasurer – none

Town Manager – none

Council Concerns:
Mayor Harvey mentioned the Legislative Dinner was overdue and was a great event.

Closed Session

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 3 of the Code of Virginia, 1950,
as amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the acquisition of real property for
the public purpose, where discussion in an open meeting would adversely affect the bargaining
position or negotiating strategy of the public body, specifically being for the expansion of the
Public Works facilities and pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 6 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as

4  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 31, 2014

amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the investment of public funds where
competition or bargaining is involved, where, if made public initially, the financial interest of the
governmental unit would be adversely affected, specifically for the purpose of Economic
Development and pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended,
for the purpose of discussion of a specific appointee and/or public officer of the Town,
specifically being Appointee A and pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950,
as amended, for the purpose of discussion of the performance of specific public employees of the
Town, specifically being employees A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J and K.

Vote:
Garrett – aye, McDearmon –aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the members of the Appomattox Town Council Appomattox
hereby certifies that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters
lawfully exempted from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the
closed meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business
matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or
considered by this council.

Vote:
Garrett – aye, McDearmon –aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.

On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to adjourn with no further business.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

