ref: reel_03_0826
date: 1983-02-14
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, February 14, 1983, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Sippie presiding.
Those members present were: S. E. Carter, T. W. Lawson, Ray Noble, R. L. Bass, and R. C. Hubbard. Absent - W. H. Carson
Others present were: H. T. Nash, Sr. John C. Harris, Mrs. Doug Webb, Mrs. John Booker, Vic Bosiger, Jimmy Foster, Paul Passink, and W. R. Britton, Jr., Town Manager, and Acting Clerk of Council.
The meeting was opened with a prayer.
On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to approve the Agenda with one addition to Old Business, 6. Appomattox Junior Woman's Club - Railroad Festival, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.
On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council approved the minutes of the January 10, 1983 Council meeting as written and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.
Mrs. Doug Webb and Mrs. Booker, Appomattox Junior Woman's Club, appeared before Council to discuss the Railroad Festival. Mrs. Webb turned the floor over to Patti Booker. Mrs. Booker read into the record a letter from the Railroad Festival Board, to the Appomattox Junior Woman's Club and then a letter from the Appomattox Junior Woman's Club dated February 14, 1983. (See copies in Council file, February, 1983). A lengthy discussion ensued with no action taken by Council.
Mr. Vic Bosiger and Mr. Paul Passink, appeared before Council to request permission to put Channel 33 on the Appomattox Cable System, Monday-Friday, 10 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Council took no action on the proposal but requested Mr. Bosiger to do further research on the possibility of using Channel 33 on the Appomattox Cable System periodically during the week.
Mr. Bosiger also requested that the Franchise Agreement be modified to alter the billing procedures.
On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to modify Section 23, Sub-section B, of the Franchise Agreement to allow the Appomattox Cable Company to bill after one month of service has been provided per month, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.
On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to advertize their intent to alter the Cable Franchise to allow for a dollar-per-extra-set charge to cover the royalty fees, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried unanimously.
On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council approved the December, 1983, Financial Statement, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20847
record_id: 1867
page_number: 1

