ref: reel_03_0858
date: 1984-03-12
content: Regular Meeting - March 12, 1984

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, March 12, 1984, at 7:30 P.M., at the Appomattox Town Office, with Mayor R. C. Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: Mr. Ray Noble, Mr. R. L. Bass, Mr. Martin Webb, Mr. R. C. Hubbard, Mr. Sam Carter, Mr. H. W. Conner was not present at this meeting.

Others present were: W. R. Britton, Jr., Town Manager, Ms. Gayle Griiser, Lynchburg News, Mrs. Frances Abbitt, Times-Virginian, Judy Volturo, Acting Clerk to Council.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

Mr. Carter made a motion to approve the Agenda, Mr. Noble seconded the motion, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

The Council Minutes of February 13, 1984 was approved by a motion from Mr. Ray Noble, seconded by Mr. Webb, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle reported to Council the outcome of the Public Hearing. Mr. Spiggle reported that there were no citizens present at the Public Hearing but there were some outside comments made by the citizens, in that they were pleased with the Funeral Home and saw no problems with it. Mr. Hubbard as a member of the Planning Commission stated to Council that the Planning Commision recommends that Funeral Homes be added to R-2.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion, seconded by Mr. Noble, that the amendment be made to the Zoning Ordinance to allow Funeral Homes to R-2.

Mr. Hubbard-aye Mr. Noble-aye Mr. Carter-aye Mr. Bass-aye Mr. Webb-aye Motion carried.

The next on the agenda to discuss was the opening of the bids for the proposed Town Shop. There was three bids given, J. J. Sears, J. E. Jamerson and Bill Stratton. See copy of bids attached.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Webb to give the Property Committee the authority to review and award the building contract to one of the three bidders.

Mr. Britton mentioned that he is also bidding out the electrical contract and heating contract and he would like this to be part of this motion.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble to amend the prior motion to include that the Property Committee have the authority to review and award the contract for electrical and heat also. All members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Hubbard to pass the Engineers report on to the County for their study, regarding the County sewage study and let us know if they wish to pursue it. All members voting aye. Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20875
record_id: 1895
page_number: 1

