1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 28, 2023

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, March 28, 2023 at 6:30
p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett,
Nathan A. Simpson, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present: Charles Conrad; Carlton Duck; Jonathon Garrett; Don Jones; Dana Mayberry;
Kia Scott; Stacy Castro; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager and
Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

Presentations for FY2024-Request for Community Funding:

Kia Scott, Secretary-Appomattox Railroad Festival
Ms. Scott appeared before Council to request $10,000 for the 51st Annual Railroad Festival
scheduled for the second full weekend in October. The Appomattox Railroad Festival is a
501(C)3 organization responsible for planning the event. Last year (2022), was considered the
largest parade and highest overall attendance for the 3-day event. The committee strives to
improve each year.

Don Jones, Appomattox Tourism Committee-Experience Appomattox
Mr. Jones appeared before Town Council to request $10,000 for FY2024 to promote Experience
Appomattox. He expressed appreciation for the past funding, provided an annual report of
activities and explained that the committee is in the process of revamping the rack cards placed
in visitor centers throughout the state. Mr. Jones also informed Council of the TV commercial
that would be appearing on WSET next week April 5,6,7 in preparation of the 158th anniversary
events. There will be a massive number of events happening in Town.

Jonathon Garrett, Chief-Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department
Mr. Garrett appeared before Council to provide an update for 2022. The fire department
responded to 381 calls for service with 100% volunteer firefighters. He also thanked Council for
the annual donation of $27,000. He requested use of the Town’s ARPA funding to replace the
20-year-old air compressor.

Stacey Castro, Hurt and Proffitt, Inc.
Ms. Castro provided an update to the Utility Rate Study. A 3% increase yearly for water is
recommended. A 3% increase every third year is recommended for sewer.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Simpson, Council voted to fund the vehicle
request from ARPA funds ($52,000).
ROLL CALL VOTE:  Allen – yes, Boyce – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes, Simpson-yes,
Spiggle – yes, Motion carried 6-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 28, 2023

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to fund the Appomattox
Volunteer Fire Department’s request to replace the air compressor from ARPA funds ($82,680).
ROLL CALL VOTE:  Allen – yes, Boyce – yes, Garrett – abstained, Puckette – yes, Simpson-
yes; Spiggle – yes. Motion carried 5-0-1.

Dana Mayberry, General Manager-Appomattox Inn and Suites
Ms. Mayberry appeared before Council on behalf of the American Civil War Museum. She
supports the American Civil War Museum’s funding campaign and hopes Council will also. The
American Civil War Museum is vital to the Appomattox Inn and Suites and Bed and Breakfasts
in Appomattox. This summer, July 26-27, Appomattox will be hosting the mid-summer retreat of
the board of directors for the American Civil War Museum.

COUNCIL COMMENTS:

Timothy W. Garrett – inquired about the status of the depot renovations. (Manager’s Report)

Mary Lou Spiggle-none

Nathan A. Simpson – inquired about the status of the Old Courthouse Smart Scale project. Mr.
McGhee indicated it would be November 2023 before construction begins.

James J. Boyce - none

Jane T. Allen - none

Claudia G. Puckette - none

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS:

Finance and Planning-none
Physical Development-none
ARPA-funding was approved for the Sheriff’s Office vehicle and the air compressor at the
Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department.

Mr. Garrett would like to look at the Real Estate Tax rate again and offset the difference with
Meals Tax funding.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 28, 2023

STAFF REPORTS:

Kim Ray-gave the finance report as of February 2023.

Mr. McGhee-discussed his update from March 28, 2023:

•  Mr. McGhee will research prices for a study to attract a “walk-in” medical care

facility.

•  Mr. Elder is working on a policy proposal to address the treatment of rainwater. It

should be ready for review in May 2023.

•  Garment Factory-Mr. Lawson indicates Mr. Gobble on the Town’s EDA is

researching options and outcomes for him.

•  Staff will have a website meeting on April 4, 2023.
•  Update on the Train Depot.
•  Mr. McGhee would like Council to entertain a Utilization and Renovation Study
for the Town Hall building including media upgrades at the Public Works
building.

Mr. Simpson asked Council to consider the old Gallery building at the end of Main Street. It is
bank owned, 15,000 sq ft and tearing down a portion in the back would provide 15-20 parking
spaces.

Mr. Boyce asked Council to consider no sewer increases and only a water increase in FY2024
and FY2025.

ADJOURNMENT:

On a motion by Timothy W. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Claudia Puckette, Council voted to
adjourn at 8:05 pm. All council members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

