ref: reel_02_0723
date: 1973-12-21
content: A regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Friday, December 21, 1973 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were: Mr. R. C. Hubbard, Mrs. C. H. Robinson, Mr. Burke Guill, Mr. T. E. Conner, and Mr. Ivey Holland.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

On a motion by Mr. Burke Guill and second by Mr. R. C. Hubbard the following resolution was passed:

WHEREAS, the Appomattox County High School Administration has requested that the Town of Appomattox assist them in their efforts to control student parking;

AND WHEREAS, the resident community along Oakleigh Avenue from its intersection with Church Street to its intersection with Harrell Street has expressed concern regarding the growing problem with student parking along this street;

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council requests that the State Highway erect 2 hour limited parking signs along Oakleigh Avenue between its intersection with Church Street to its intersection with Harrell Street between the hours of 8 A.M. to 4 P.M.

Motion carried.

Mr. Holland made the motion, seconded by Mrs. C. H. Robinson to purchase a sewage pump station to serve the Sunnydale Avenue section of Town at a total cost of $8229.00. Motion carried.

Mayor Pack advised the Council that the Right-of-way on 1002 (Evergreen Avenue) is almost totally acquired and that Mr. Charlie Hill is the only property left to be acquired. No action was taken.

Conner made the motion, seconded by Mrs. C. H. Robinson, to accept the incidental land parcels involved in the annexation suit as defined in exhibit A of the annexation petition into the Corporate limits of the Town of Appomattox.

Slagle advised the Council on the desirability of having reliable drawings to scale on the storm drainage system, the water system, and the sewer system.

Council expressed their desire that all Town bank deposits be secured and authorized Mr. Slagle to investigate this and report back to Council.

Mr. Conner made a motion, seconded by Mr. Hubbard to rescind the following position taken at a regular meeting.
chunk_id: 20174
record_id: 1194
page_number: 1

