1  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and
Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
March 28, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council and Appomattox County Board of Supervisors held a joint
meeting on March 28, 2017 at 6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden
Street, Appomattox, Virginia.

Town Council Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou
Spiggle, Steven T. Conner, Claudia G. Puckette, and Mayor Paul D. Harvey.

Absent:  M. Erin Finch

County Board members present:  Sara Carter, Sam Carter, and Chad Millner.

Absent:  Bill Hogan and Bryan Moody

Others:  Tom Utz, Jeff Garrett, Brennan Hefty, Bill Hefty, Clarence Monday, Interim Town
Manager, Susan Adams, County Administrator; Vicky Phelps, and Roxanne W. Casto, Town
Clerk.

At 6:35 p.m., Mayor Harvey called the Town Council meeting to order.  Mr. Carter, Chairman
called the Board of Supervisors to order.

Mayor Harvey led those in attendance in prayer.

Mayor Harvey – We are pleased to have Brennan Hefty and Bill Hefty with us tonight to give us
a presentation to help share ideas on how we can move forward with economic development and
good thoughts on how to move forward ideas on a marketing plan.

Mr. Bill Hefty – When I was here last time we talked about combining the EDA’s and it just
does not work very well and partly because one of the EDA’s has debt and it’s hard to dissolve
both of them and reconstitute an EDA and there is no statute that says you can joint 2 EDA’s
when one of them has debt so the issue really makes that (combining) impossible.

So, you’re going to have 2 EDA’s – a Town EDA and a County EDA.  The other thing we talked
about was the EDA’s are financing mechanisms, but the nuts and bolts of economic development
is administrative, Town staff and County staff.  Here you also have the regional organization that
is doing economic development and the problem with that is it is regional; do they focus on
Appomattox or other areas?  In looking at it, we think you need to work together, that’s obvious
and I think that you have some unique capabilities in the Town and the City [County].  You seem
to look from the outside to work together pretty well and you have water and sewer in Town and
the business park in the County.  One thing that is missing is a person to coordinate the economic
development function and having done this over a lot of jurisdictions in Virginia it is really hard
for the County Administrator and Town Manager to be in charge of economic development
because it is not their primary jobs.  Even places not much larger than Appomattox have one
person dedicated to economic development.

2  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and
Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
March 28, 2017

Our first recommendation is that you think about hiring a combined economic development
coordinator.  It is the only way, I think, to take what the Town has to offer, what the County has
to offer and market those two (2) things together from the standpoint – everyone else has too
many duties to focus on economic development and if you’re serious about it – having someone
who that’s their responsibility working with Clarence and Susan, is, we think, the best approach.
It doesn’t have to be a high paying position.  I have a draft here, we call it an Economic
Development Associate and a draft Memorandum of Understanding basically a shared position –
basically for VRS purposes, an employee of one or the other and we have it being an employee
of the County (could be town) and that persons job would be to focus on economic development
for the County and the town, to apply for grants, to try to find prospects try to talk to prospects,
to try to interest prospects, scheduling meetings, showing them advantage of the Town,
advantages of the County, basically marketing Appomattox as one area.

You are much better off if you are willing to market it as one area because the County obviously
has land and the Town is just beautiful with a lot of attributes to shop, eat, all sorts of things.

The associate would be responsible for coordinating everything between the Town and the
County.  Benefits – tailored to the County or Town.  Obviously, there are some businesses that
are smaller and would just go in the Town – I think it just makes sense.  I don’t think that an
economic development associate needs to focus on just huge businesses.  It’s the smaller
businesses that come into the town – that can add to the tax base of both the Town and the
County and also add to the quality of life.  I think, it would be a huge mistake I think to only
focus just huge business with lots of employees.  It’s the stores I think they need to focus on as
well.   Looking at starting July 1, 2017 if you’re interested in starting that and you have someone
on board who could coordinate all that stuff.

Incentives that the Town can offer such as water and sewer, the County can offer land,
development fees, forgiven of taxes or tax rebates these are things the Town and County can
work on together.  One of the things we put in here is joint meetings, I think this is a great idea.
You guys are already doing something that a lot of Town and County’s aren’t doing.  I think
around economic development is a way to do that – recommend that there be 3 meetings/year
among the governing bodies to talk about economic development along with the EDA’s.  The
EDA’s need to be involved in these too since they will be financing those initiatives.

Joint marketing materials – Paul spoke to this – we don’t write joint marketing materials, so we
did not bring marketing materials on Appomattox.  You need to have some, and it needs to focus
on what the Town can offer and what the County can offer.  The joint presentation makes the
economic development effort a lot better and more palatable to small businesses or businesses
that may want to come in.  They need to know that the Town and County are on the same page
and working together.  It just works much better for businesses.  The goal would be for the
associate to have marketing materials by January 1, 2018.

Sharing of tax revenues – I put in the memorandum of understanding not particulars about
sharing of tax revenues but that the Town and County agree to explore options.  We had hoped
that with the Go Virginia initiative that there could be an application from both the Town and

3  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and
Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
March 28, 2017

County (2 applications) to apply for some of the funding.  We think now that some of the
regulations that are going to come out are going to say that the town and county cannot be the 2
that apply.  It has to be either 2 county’s – a city and a county, but not a town within a county.
That’s not what the statue says but what the regulations say and that part of the Go Virginia
initiative you are not going to be able to do together but you can do it with another county.  The
MOU being put forward is subject to approval of the Town Council and Board of Supervisors,
both of you have to approve it and anyone can end it whenever they want to.  It is if you are
happy with it you can continue with it.

If you are not happy with it, you can dissolve it and the joint funding would go away.  So, each
of you would control how long you want to be in this relationship.  The question is to look at if
you want to hire someone to oversee economic development functions and then work with Susan
and Clarence or whoever to make that work going forward.  The results are not guaranteed but I
think your chances of getting people are a lot better together than if you just rely on the regional
effort to bring you prospects.  You are competing against other jurisdictions that have people
who oversee economic development.

Brennan Hefty presented a Power point presentation on economic development incentives.

Incentive options are tools to use but the prospects may have a different idea.  Not knowing
when a prospect is coming, and their timeframe may be very short – having someone on staff
dedicated to economic development helps in this area.

All of these incentives funnel through the EDA’s.  One of the obvious ways to incentivize is
through a cash grant.  In all of the agreement there are “claw backs”, so if a company falls short
of its goals there is a provision that you get your money back because it is taxpayers’ money.
Another is the façade improvement grants, which make a huge difference.  It’s a matching grant.
The benefits go a long way.  You can donate property and it doesn’t have to be at fair market
value and the EDA is not required to have a public hearing.  Issuing bonds is another way to
finance other companies coming in.  Richmond does small loans for business start up but you
need to be careful with that – EDA’s are not bankers and you don’t want to get burned on that.
Running the incremental tax revenue back through the EDA and the advantage to this is really
you aren’t taking existing taxes – it’s new taxes.  Another popular request is waiving of fees –
building permit, zoning fees, water and sewer connection fees.

Utility costs seem to be a major issue.  They are expensive costs and are going up.  Sidewalk
improvements are constantly being negotiated.

Another option is something called enterprise zones.  The locality must apply to DHCD for
designation of the zone in the locality.  The concept is certain areas can expect certain
advantages for fees, permit fees.  There is currently a cap on the number of enterprise zones in
the state.  You have to wait until one of those expires before applying to the state.

The Local Technology Zone basically established by local ordinances and incentivized through
locality funding.  Lynchburg was one example of reimbursement of BPOL fees paid.

4  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and
Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
March 28, 2017

Lastly, there are state funds and grants that you could be eligible for with regional cooperation.

Questions:

Mr. Carter – asked about the “Go Virginia” through the VEDP – The VA Opportunity fund, yes
but the “Go Virginia” goes through a new board that has been created.  The Tobacco
Commission also has their own board.

Mr. Carter – going back to the beginning – how much time do you think an economic
development director or associate should spend in Richmond?

Mr. Hefty – I don’t think you need to spend a lot of time with the people at Virginia Economic
Development Partnership.  That isn’t the duty or the job of the people.  I think you need to know
the people, have contact with them on a regular basis.  A lot of the time, the prospects will have
already talked to VEDP.  You must have a relationship with VEDP, so they will send people
your way.

Mr. Carter – that’s exactly my point – you can show or see what’s been brought in from Region
2000 and that’s zero.

Economic Development is a full-time job and if you fully commit to it – there are no guarantees
and you truly are competing against everyone else.  You really have to get there and market the
area.

You have transportation and railroad nearby and you are centrally located. You really do have to
spend some time doing it (economic development).

Mrs. Puckette – I think you really need to have a good job description – see some job
descriptions, of a successful person.

Mr. Conner – need to pick one boss – the person can’t work for 5 people.

Mr. Harvey – this person will have to answer to 2 EDA’s, 2 government bodies, a County
Administrator, and Town Manager.

Mr. Hefty – If the person is good – they will know how to keep all those balls in the air.  You
need good personalities.

When you asked us to come here originally it was to try to look at things the Town and County
could do together which is I am a firm believer you can do more together than doing it separately
and to the extent that the Town can pay we will let the County do it because they are bigger, I
think the town has a lot of things to offer in this partnership in terms of enticing businesses to the
area.  In terms of you are the place where people come to do a lot of business, grocery shop that

5  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and
Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
March 28, 2017

sort of thing.  The town is an integral part of this – it is much stronger if the town and county do
this together than if the county does it on their own – that’s just my opinion.

Mr. Conner – I agreed about 4-5 groups to answer to – we are going to suck it up, pick on
person.

Mayor Harvey – Have to interact with both; a person with strong character.  You may have to
pay a little more for this kind of experience.  I would like for the board of other council members
to speak up and tell us what you think of it.

Mrs. Sara Carter – I think the logical answer to our question about how to obtain our goals of
working together [so when we looked at this at our previous meeting] some of the ideas we had
before turned out not to be feasible.  This looks like a good opportunity to find a way to thread
that needle to work together.  For the person chosen – it will be critical to hit the ground running
and have the expertise to work with the two groups.

Mayor Harvey – If they know how to do the job, they are going to simplify it for us.  They take
the lead and not create more complications for us.  They control the information and what is
presented.

Mrs. Puckette – They will have to be a great communicator.  The boards have to feel like they
are in the loop.  This thing of not being in the loop – that’s where all kinds of stuff goes wrong.
They need a job description with measurable timelines – if in 18 months you bring someone to
town or you bring no one to town.  We’ve got to set goals.  I don’t’ want to pay big bucks for
someone to drive around in a car and has lunch and whatever.

Mr. T. Garrett – Pay them a salary and if they bring someone in here – reward them – let that
person know that if they bring businesses here – we will reward them.

Mr. Conner – Kind of a like a commission.

Mr. T. Garrett – A lot of what’s been discussed – we’ve been doing.  I think you need to find the
person with the talent we are talking about and brings jobs here.

Ms. Spiggle – The last economic development director, he got mixed up and thought he was a
tourism director and we needed an economic development director.  He was just confused but a
likeable person.  You can’t bring a business without telling them how nice Appomattox is.

Mr. Hefty – Businesses want to be in a nice place but it’s a business decision.  So, they are
looking at your incentive packages.   First, its important to understand what the points of the
business are.

Mr. Conner – The prospects want to know what type of workforce you have today – not 5 years
from now.  Also, if their first question is what the incentives are then they aren’t serious.  If the
workforce is ready, then the incentives are not a major thing.

6  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and
Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
March 28, 2017

Mr. Hefty – I tend to agree with you Mr. Conner.  The companies that get funneled have done
their own research.  They are looking for workforce/skill levels, schools/workforce, quality of
life.

If they fund those things in a community then it becomes crucial how responsive you are with
incentives.

Cooperation between the Town and County speaks to the region getting along.

Mrs. Puckette – How do we get in front all of these other people?

Mrs. Adams – Luck

Mr. Hefty – It’s going to take a while.  Going to see the VEDP folks, marketing materials to get
to companies, networking with other economic development directors, get to work to get your
region noticed because a lot of people go the regional entity.  Show yourself above others in the
region.

Mrs. Sara Carter – we are doing a lot of right things.  We are the only school system in the
region that is fully accredited – the only one comparable in the state that is accredited.  You do
the fundamentals and what the Town is doing appealing to the attractiveness, park
improvements, and the county has to work those things like schools and appropriate services and
the town does a lot of those quality of life things together and we work together like we are
supposed to then that is a very appealing package.  Then you get someone out there marketing
this appealing package; we’ve got accredited schools and quality of life and start with the
fundamentals and then get someone out there to market it.

Mr. Conner – Manufacturing – we need a really good work ethic amount of people looking for
full time jobs.

Mr. Millner – There are a lot of pieces to the puzzle and we are a lot closer than we thought – so
how do we get them all together and working together as a unified team and marketing
ourselves.

Brennan Hefty – Everyone in the Unites States knows where Appomattox is located.

Mayor Harvey – Is there somewhere other than just advertising for this position –is there a
source we can go to that has these kinds of people that we can talk to without necessarily
advertising this position getting a bunch of unqualified people?

Conner/Adams – ½ of the previous VEDP staff that were just fired – VEDP Association.

Mayor Harvey – Someone who is qualified working with 4 bodies – don’t want to be behind the
eight ball.

7  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and
Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
March 28, 2017

Mrs. Adams – I think they need to be strong in technology and social media – databases that
need updating.  A lot of information needs updating first.

Mr. Hefty – Consider paying more to get more.

Mayor Harvey – Sharing the expense between the Town and County.

Mr. Hefty – Think about working together – joint meetings – Town and County EDA meetings.

Mrs. Puckette – Someone to keep us all informed and up to date.

Sam Carter – To Mrs. Adams:  Because of your past economic development director experience
– the businesses you attracted Garet Bosiger and the cabinet making company – how did you
attract them?  Mrs. Adams – it was luck.  The prospect went to Halifax and they didn’t have
natural gas and then they came to Charlotte County and we didn’t have natural gas either but it’s
called “court”, the prospect – so you just continue to court them and work with them at the state
level representatives and finally they had confidence in us that we could get them natural gas and
they located there.

Mr. Bosiger, a company from Indiana purchased it from him – basically finders’ luck – with
oversees connections and the gift of the building, she got grants – all with no help from the
region.

Mr. Millner – the prospects how many started inquires through the internet, regional, VEDP?

Mrs. Adams – They contacted Charlotte County directly and then the County contacted VEDP,
always good to have the Governor’s cabinet at that meeting – especially if they are coming from
out of state.  So, we would just have a round table discussion with all the parties.  Tobacco
Commission, Workforce Development, one stop shop because you only get one opportunity to
sell yourself.  I sold myself to the cabinet company because I like Conway Twitty.

Mayor Harvey – any other questions –

Adams – There is an area of economic development we need to keep in mind and that is the level
of confidentially that all the bodies need to be informed and there’s a timing factor on that –
when the bodies need to be informed.

Mr. Conner - Keep it confidential.  Turn them lose and let them go and do their job and keep
their mouth shut.

Mr. Sam Carter – Mr. Bob Goode – what do you think?

Mr. Goode – there is a lot of wisdom in this – it takes the burden off a lot of people and

puts in on one and they will work with it much easier than a bunch of people.

8  Joint meeting - Appomattox Town Council and
Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
March 28, 2017

Mr. Conner – If you want to be informed on everything (prospects) that person is working on –
then you might as well forget it – because it won’t work.  Give them guidelines and let them go.

Mrs. Puckette – I understand – in some manner we have to hold them accountable – to employ
someone for several years and have nothing…

Mr. Conner – I hate to tell you this, but you might – it’s a gamble you have to take.

Mrs. Puckette – If he/she can provide a report – Richmond & prospects – then we will give them
enough time.

Mr. Conner – It could take 3-4 years…

Mrs. Adams – I think they could give you a spreadsheet with activities.  WIG is one we are
working with now.  It doesn’t give you too many details but lets you know they are doing
something.

Mayor Harvey – How long did it take [Charlotte County businesses]?

Adams – typically they have to take it back to their boards.  Oh, the timeframe of those entities –
less than a year.

Mayor Harvey – Thanked Mr. Bill Hefty and Brennan Hefty for attending the meeting and
providing the MOU.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn at 7:40
p.m. All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Millner, seconded by Mrs. Sara Carter, the Board voted to also adjourn at
7:40 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 3-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

