ref: reel_03_0767
date: 1981-06-08
content: On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to table the Item 3, New Business on the Agenda.

Carson-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Conner-absent from the room Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to incorporate into the Sick Leave Policy a statement concerning the Workmen's Compensation. (see copy in Council file dated June 1981.)

Carson-aye Conner-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried.

Mr. Britton reported that Mr. Harold Nash, and several others, have requested that the Town request the Highway Department to put up Speed Limit signs on Sunnydale Avenue.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to request the Virginia Department of Highways to put a 25 m.p.h. Speed Limit sign on Sunnydale Avenue, and all members voted aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Britton reported that Town policy in the past has been any customer having a water leak is still responsible for any sewer and water fees on the total bill. Mr. Harwood had a water leak, but he is requesting that the sewer fee be waived on the overage caused by the water leak due to the fact that it did not go into the Town system.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to establish policy re-troactive to April 1, 1981, that when a water customer has a water leak and can prove that the water did not go into the Town system, then we will charge the sewer fee for the average used above the normal bill for the three previous periods.

Conner-aye Noble-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Carson-nay Motion carried by a 4 to 1 vote.

Mayor Spiggle vacated the chair, and appointed Mr. Hubbard to serve as temporary Chairman for the meeting.

Mr. Spiggle addressed the Council concerning Section 15.1-103.1 thru Section 15.103.4 of the State Code pertaining to establishing boundary lines. He explained the Sections to Council and the reason for this.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to present to the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors a proposal to establish this agreement and locate the true boundary line, being the center line of Countryside Drive as the Town Corporate limits for that area.

Conner-aye Carson-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

There being no further business to come before Council, the meeting adjourned at 9:40 P.M.
chunk_id: 20824
record_id: 1844
page_number: 1

