ref: reel_02_0437
date: 1966-08-15
content: The regular meeting of the Town Council was held in the Council Room on August 15, 1966 at 7:30 P.M., with Mayor H. B. Pack, Jr. presiding and G. S. Booth as clerk.

The following members were present: Mrs. C. H. Robinson, Ivey Holland, R. L. Bass, R. L. Wingfield, and R. C. Hubbard.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Mayor reported that the Town is holding about even on pumping water. He said that our weak spot in our system is the lack of a good standby well and only one booster pump.

The Council approved of the billing and posting system proposed by Town Manager for water bills and accounts.

Motion by Hubbard, second by Bass: That an addressograph be purchased for office use. Motion carried.

Mr. Fred Wooldridge appeared before the Council to find out the requirements for street improvements before the Town would accept a new street. The Town Code was cited to him.

After a discussion on the Cawthorne Ave. sewer and water lines, Wingfield moved, and Bass seconded: That the water and sewer lines be extended about 125 feet. Motion carried.

Hubbard reported that a complaint has been received about the sidewalk in front of the R. C. Moore house on Church St. It was decided to investigate it.

Hubbard moved and Mrs. Robinson seconded: That a chain link fence with necessary gates be installed on the No. 5 Well lot, and that the building for No. 4 well be made more secure. Motion carried.

Booth reported that the trailer on the Ferguson E. lot at Court St. and Confederate Boulevard had been connected to the sewer and water lines as he has been authorized to.

A letter to the Town from Mrs. C. W. Smith thanking the Town for installing a street light at Oakley St. and Confederate Boulevard was read.

A letter from the Dominion Tank & Iron Co. was read. They offered to repaint and guarantee the job for 10 years, provided they could repaint it before Oct. Motion by Bass and seconded by Wingfield: That the offer of doing this for $760.00 be accepted. Motion carried.

A discussion of hiring Hankins, Anderson and Moncrief as consultant engineer was held. The Mayor was instructed to obtain more information.

Bass moved and Mrs. Robinson seconded: That proposed Well No. 6 be drilled and developed. Motion carried.
chunk_id: 19921
record_id: 941
page_number: 1

