ref: reel_02_0769
date: 1974-10-21
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, October 21, 1974 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were Burke Guill, T. E. Conner, Ronald Spiggle, Marvin House, Jr. and R. G. Hubbard.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Mr. Spiggle suggested that the Town request the Highway Department improve the drainage ditch on Fleshman Street.

Mr. Conner reported he has been in contact with the Marine Reserves concerning the construction of a new Town Ball Park. The Marine Reserves asked to be contacted again in January.

Mr. Slagle explained his view of the Central Virginia Planning District Commission's proposed "Land Use Plan" for Central Virginia. It was the consensus of the Council to study certain paragraphs within the "Plan" and take a definite vote at the next regular meeting.

Mr. Guill reported that at least five street lights were needed in Morris Heights Subdivision. It was decided to have Mr. Slagle work with Mr. Guill on the street light problem.

Mr. Slagle reported that he is continuing with the project of acquiring the right of way on Court Street.

Mr. House and his committee were requested to start plans for the Annual Firemen's Banquet. He also gave a report on the Health Planning Committee for Appomattox County, and requested Council's support.

Mr. Spiggle requested that the problem of parking on Atwood Street be studied and some recommendations made. He also requested that the Town check into the need for the parking signs on North Church Street due to the opening of the new Appomattox County High School.

Mr. Conner requested that the Town establish a marking system for the parking enforcement.

Mr. Guill presented our plans for the parking lot on Main Street. After some discussion, Council voted to approve "Plan B" on a motion by Spiggle, seconded by Mr. House and make this a non-restrictive lot. Motion carried.

Mr. Hubbard made a motion to refer the matter of proposed changes to the Town Subdivision Ordinance to the Appomattox County Planning Commission, seconded by Mr. Guill. Motion carried.

Mr. Slagle reported that there will be a public hearing
chunk_id: 20220
record_id: 1240
page_number: 1

