ref: reel_03_0716
date: 1980-03-10
content: Page 2 of 2
Regular meeting-March 10, 1980

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, that "signatory authority" be given to W. R. Britton, Jr., on the HUD Grant for the Waterline Extension, and all voted aye.

Mr. Britton informed Council Mr. Pulliam is no longer willing to negotiate on his property and the soil is unacceptable with the State Water Control Board.

Mr. Britton informed Council that the Continental Can Company land has been approved by S.C.S. and letters are being sent to the Owners asking for negotiable figure on the property for an option. He requested permission to have the property appraised by a qualified appraiser.

Mr. Conner made the motion to hire a qualified appraiser but the motion died for lack of a second.

The matter of Sewer Tests to be run 7 days a week by the Town Force was referred to the Sewer Committee for their study and recommendations. Mr. Britton requested permission to draw up an Operation and Maintenance Manual for the Basic Operation of the Sewer Plant.

Mr. Bass reported on the Water Committee's meeting. They had received two bids to do the well. The Committee has recommended that the Bid from Fred Jones Well Co. be accepted.

Mr. Bass made the motion, seconded by Mr. Conner, to accept the recommendation of the Water Committee and to with a test well by Fred Jones Well Co. at a bid price of $3,530.00. This price does not include the Pump or the Well House.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Gordon-aye Lawson-aye Motion carried.

The Water Committee also discussed the possibility of a well revitalization procedures. There is a procedure which can revitalize a well with a high iron content. The approximate cost would be $400.00 per well.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council accepted the Water Committee's recommendation and will do one well at a time to see if it helps.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Gordon-aye Lawson-aye Motion carried.

Meeting adjourned at 9:30 P.M.
chunk_id: 20792
record_id: 1812
page_number: 1

