1  Regular Council Meeting

Monday, January 12, 2009

At the Regular Council Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on January 12, 2009 at
6:30 pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street,
Appomattox, Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council
members Bryan J. Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky”
Williams, Karl E. Carter, Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.   Also in attendance were Mary Lou
Spiggle, Joyce Bennett, Barbara Shelton, Chad Millner, Nina Beasley, Ben Harvey, Benny
Harvey, Lucy Harvey, Cliff Harvey, Paul Michael Raymond, Mary Williams, Stephanie James,
Carlton Duck, Derek Norfield, Frank Wright, David Garrett, Jr. and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order at 6:30 pm.

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry and
with all members present voting “aye”, Council voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to
§2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of consultation with
legal counsel retained by the Town regarding specific legal advice by such counsel, the subject
matter of such meeting being legal advice pertaining to the potential purchase of 4.0 acres of
land by the Town of Appomattox to be used for the Museum of the Confederacy and §2.2-3711
(A)1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion of the
performance and salaries of a specific public employee of the Town of Appomattox, specifically
being Employee A and §2.2-3711 (A) 19 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the
purpose of discussion regarding a report or plans related to the security of any governmental
facility, building or structure, specifically being computerized equipment at all Town facilities.

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed or considered by this council.

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – aye.

The regular meeting began at 7:50 p.m.

Mayor Harvey welcomed everyone.

Rev. Paul Michael Raymond gave the invocation.

On a motion by Councilmember Williams, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon and with
the members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adopt the consent agenda as presented.
Motion carried.

Public Comments – none

2  Regular Council Meeting

Monday, January 12, 2009

Mayor’s Comments – None

Appearances – None

Unfinished Business – None

New Business –
On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs and
with all council members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adopt the 2009 Appomattox
Town Council Meeting Schedule as presented omitting the joint meeting with the Appomattox
County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday, January 27, 2009 at 6:00 pm.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Carter, seconded by Councilmember Williams and with all
council members present voting “aye”, Council voted to amend the Travel Policy of the Town of
Appomattox reducing the mileage reimbursement from $0.585 to $0.55 retroactive to January 1,
2009.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Williams and with all
council members present voting “aye”, Council voted to enter into the T-Mobile Lease
Agreement as presented.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Williams, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon and with
all council members present voting “aye”, Council voted to rescind the motion on December 22,
2008 giving a donation to Employee A.  Motion carried.

Council Concerns –
On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon and with
all council members present voting “aye”, Council voted to send the list of Water and Sewer
Capital Improvement Projects to Congressional members for consideration in the Economic
Stimulus Package, including the Concord to Appomattox Waterline.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs
and with the members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 8:25 p.m.  Motion
carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey,
Mayor

