1  Workshop Meeting
January 27, 2009

At the Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on January 27, 2009 at 7:00
pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council members Bryan J.
Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky” Williams and Karl
E. Carter.  Absent was Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.  Also in attendance were Bob Hopkins,
Stephanie James, Sarah Watson, Peter Zdgiebloski, Paul Michael Raymond, Chad Millner,
Carlton Duck, David Garrett, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Baine and with all
Council Members present voting “aye”, Council voted to amend the agenda by adding a Closed
Session, pursuant to §2.2-3711(A)1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose
of discussing a prospective candidate for the position of Director of Tourism with the Town of
Appomattox, specifically being prospective candidate A.  Motion carried.

Rick Butler, Virginia Department of Forestry appeared before Council to discuss the Tree City
Program.  In order to the start the program in the Town of Appomattox a board will need to be
created and a Tree City Ordinance adopted by Town Council.  The program requires an annual
budget of $2.00 per capita and the Town’s annual leave collection meets this requirement.  There
would also need to be an Arbor Day observance and proclamation each year.

Bob Hopkins, Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. appeared before Council to advise of mileage expenses
erroneously charged by Hurt and Proffitt and the total amount of $5334.57 will be credited to the
Town through ongoing or current projects such as the VPDES applications for the waste
treatment plants.  Also, Bob Hopkins advised Council that the SBR modifications are ready to be
advertised.  Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. will be advertising and setting the bid date.  In order for
construction to start in early April, bids would need to be opened at the end of March and
advertisements in early February.

The Appomattox Town Council gave reports and updates from Standing Committees:

Finance – None

Fire & Safety – None, the Chairman was absent.

Ordinance – Mr. Carter reported that the committee met on January 15, 2009 to finalize the
proposed sign ordinance for the Town.  The next meeting is pending for review of the draft
ordinance by the Town Attorney.

Personnel – Mr. Williams reported that the committee met three times during the month of
January 2009 and held Closed Sessions for the interviews of the candidates for the position of
Director of Tourism.  Also, the Committee met to discuss the transitional plan, which an
organizational chart was distributed for each council member to review.  Each chairperson of the
Towns standing committee would be responsible for a department head.  Each chairperson

2  Workshop Meeting
January 27, 2009

should consider appointing an alternate.  The committee does not want anything to fall through
the cracks during this transitional phase.

Street & Property - Mr. Baine reported that the committee met and entertained Rick Butler
concerning the Tree City Program.  The committee has received a request for street lights on Old
Courthouse Road.  Mr. Garrett and Mr. Baine are considering options for this request.

Utility Committee – Mr. Mayberry referred to Mr. Garrett. Mr. Garrett advised Council that the
check valve for the 100,000 gallon water tank needs to be replaced.  The tank will need to be
drained to replace the check valve and two other valves. It is the goal of the Utility Department
to fill the 1,000,000 gallon and 100,000 gallon tank to capacity.   Mr. Garrett also advised
Council that he and Roxanne Paulette, Clerk of Council attended a meeting hosted by Draper
Aden to discuss the Water Supply Plan.  The plan will be submitted to DEQ on Monday,
February 9, 2009 for review and comments.  The plan will then be submitted to localities.  Bob
White, Region 2000 will be attending a Town Council meeting in the spring (April 2009) to
discuss the plan.  There also needs to be an amendment to our current code that addresses the
water conservation plan.  The Utility Department repaired a water leak on Martha Street on
Saturday, January 24, 2009.  Mr. Garrett provided Council with the Groundwater Rule
Implementation provided by the EPA.  The Utility Department experienced a sewer problem on
Sunday, January 25, 2009.  There was a blockage that affected two homes on Dogwood Street.
The problem was resolved temporarily on Sunday and permanently on Monday.

The Town Manager’s report included:

1.   Advertisements continue to be received for the Tourism Department.
2.  Office Renovations are ongoing.
3.  The Stimulus Package letter is ready.  Hurt and Proffitt is willing to assist with the

number of days each project will take to be “shovel ready” at no cost to the town.  Hurt
and Proffitt will have the information ready by Friday, January 30, 2009.

Mr. Baine requested that the waterline from Concord to Appomattox be moved to the top of the
list since it would be the project that puts the largest number of people to work.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Williams, the
Appomattox Town Council voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of
the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussing a prospective candidate
for the position of Director of Tourism with the Town of Appomattox, specifically being
prospective Candidate A.

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – absent.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the
best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in the
motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

3  Workshop Meeting
January 27, 2009

VOTE:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Carter – aye,
Jamerson-Scruggs – absent.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Carter and with all
members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 8:20 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey,
Mayor

