Regular Meeting - August 12, 1996

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday,
August 12, 1996, with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: R. L. Bass, ยง. E. Lawson, S. E. Carter, and Norman
Mayberry. Absent: Rick Pack and Marvin Mitchell.

Others present: Audrey Wright, Clayton Bryant, Harry Lillie, Dale Schrock,
William Phillips, Town Attorney, Cindy Smith, Times-Virginian, and
Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Steve Lawson, Council voted to approve the Agenda as
presented with one addition to New Business: Item 6, Progress on Well 42, and all those present
voting aye. Motion carried.

Audrey Wright appeared before Town Council to discuss the problem of sewer in the
Meadowlark Subdivision. She would like to work with and also be kept apprised of the progress
in this area.

Mr. Harry Lillie, along with Clayton Bryant and Dale Schrock, property owners along Route 460
appeared before Town Council to discuss the problem of sewer along Route 460. They feel
that to develop this property. they need to have a sewer line in that area.

Council informed Mr. Lillie and the others present that the problem was not going to be
solved in a short time frame.

Mr. Bass reported on the progress with Well 42. The pump house has been ordered.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Steve Lawson, Council voted to remove from the
Agenda: Item 1, Unfinished Business: Well head protection and all those present voting
aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr, Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to remove from the
Surplus Property List the snapper riding Lawn Mower and donate it to the Appomattox
Elementary School and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to declare the list
of equipment as presented by David Garrett, as Surplus Property and have it sold at
Public Auction with the exception of the mower, and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

in a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to appoint
Steve Lawson to the Appomattox County Community Center Board of Directors
representing the Town of Appoamttox and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

