1  Council Workshop Meeting
Tuesday, October 29, 2013

The Appomattox Town Council held a workshop council meeting on Tuesday, October 29, 2013
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle,
N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner, Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Jeff Elder, Katrina Koetring, Stephanie James, Bill Gillespie, Town Manager; Stacey
Wilkes, Town Treasurer, and Roxanne Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

On a motion by Councilmember Conner, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to take in the Parkview Mobile Home Park water and sewer system and authorize the
Mayor to execute the necessary documents.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Committee Updates –
Finance & Planning Committee – No report for October 2013.

Physical Development Committee – Mr. Mayberry reported that the committee received a report
from Sheriff Letterman and Major Simpson regarding the last three (3) months of activity in the
Town.  The committee also discussed a “No Lease” policy and material for the Council Retreat.

Staff Updates –
Town Manager – Mr. Gillespie reported that the Preliminary Engineering Report (PER) and
Environmental Review (ER) for the Wastewater System by Reid Engineering will be finalized
by the end of November – 1st of December and will be submitted to USDA.  The Town should
receive a response around the 1st of the year.  The total projected cost of the project is $6 million
dollars.

There will be an Economic Development Authority (EDA) orientation on December 9th during
the committee meeting.

Bryan David will provide an update on the PGAV study during the December 9th Regular
Council Meeting.

Town Clerk – none

Town Treasurer – none

Council Concerns –
None

2  Council Workshop Meeting
Tuesday, October 29, 2013

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to adjourn.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

