1  Regular Council Meeting

Wednesday, October 16, 2013

The Appomattox Town Council held a regular council meeting on Wednesday, October 16, 2013
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry,
Steven T. “Steve” Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.
Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett – absent

Others:  Tom Adams, Chad Millner, Sam Carter, Cathy Sherman, Bobby Harrison, Alive Media
TV; George Bergdoll, Stephanie James, Katrina Koetring, Barbara Shelton, Karen Fratrick, Jeff
Elder, Facilities Director; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; Bill Gillespie, Town Manager and
Roxanne Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Bobby Harrison led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Public Hearing –
Mayor Harvey opened the public hearing.

The purpose of the public hearing is to hear citizen comments regarding a Voluntary Boundary
Adjustment between the Council of the Town of Appomattox, Virginia and the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Appomattox, Virginia.  The Council intends to approve a Voluntary
Boundary Adjustment whereby certain parcels of land now located in the County would be
brought within the Corporate limits of the Town.

The parcels of land which would become a part of the Town are listed in the office of the
Commissioner of Revenue, as follows:  63-((A))-52A; 63-((A))-52; 63-((A))-55; 63-((A))-54 &
56; a part of 63-((A))-58; 63-((2))-1.

There were no comments during the public hearing.

Mayor Harvey closed the public hearing.

Mayor’s Comments –
Mayor Harvey thanked staff and the Railroad Festival committee for another successful RRF
particularly due to the wet conditions throughout the weekend.

Consent Agenda –
On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to adopt the consent agenda as presented with the addition on NB #9 – Consideration to
adopt a resolution – Irrevocable Election Not to Participate in Virginia Local Disability Program
(VRS).  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2  Regular Council Meeting

Wednesday, October 16, 2013

New Business –

On a motion by Councilmember Spiggle, seconded by Councilmember Puckette, Council voted
to approve the Voluntary Boundary Adjustment Agreement and authorize the Mayor, Paul
Harvey to execute on behalf of the Town of Appomattox.

Voluntary Boundary Adjustment Agreement

This agreement made and entered into this ____ day of ___________, 2013, by and

between the County of Appomattox, VA (“County” herein) and the Town of Appomattox
(“Town” herein).

---WITNESSETH---

That for and in consideration of the mutual benefits to these political subdivisions of the

Commonwealth of Virginia, the County and Town hereby covenant and agree pursuant to
Section 15.2-3106 et seq., Code of Virginia as follows:

1)

2)

3)

4)

 That a portion of the boundary line between County and Town shall be changed
and a new line established, which change shall have the effect of bringing a
portion of the geographical area of the County within the corporate limits of the
Town.

That County and Town has followed the procedures set forth in Section 15.2-3107
of the code of Virginia before taking action to adopt this Agreement.

That County and Town shall as soon as practicable after adoption of this
Voluntary Boundary Agreement file a Petition for approval of said Agreement in
the Circuit Court for Appomattox County following the procedure as set forth in
Sec. 15-2-3108, Code of Virginia.  That the costs of said proceedings, including,
but not limited to, survey and court costs shall be borne equally between County
and Town.

That the change of said boundary line is more particularly set forth in Exhibit
“A” attached hereto.  In said exhibit the existing boundary line is shown as
“Town Limits” on the legend and the new boundary line is shown in “red”.  The
effect will be to bring into the corporate limits of the Town the following tax map
parcels as set forth in the office of the Commissioner of the Revenue for
Appomattox County, as follows:  63-((A))-52A; 63-((A))-52; 63((A))-55; 63-((A))-
54 & 56; a part of 63-((A))58; 63-((2))-1.

WITNESS THE FOLLOWING SIGNATURES AND SEALS this the ___ day of ____________,
2013.

Vote:  McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Puckette – aye, Conner – no, Garrett –
absent.  Motion carried 4 to1.

3  Regular Council Meeting

Wednesday, October 16, 2013

On a motion by Councilmember Spiggle, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council voted to
enact the Code of the Town of Appomattox, Chapter 32, Section 1 through 9, entitled “Economic
Development Authority”.

AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT the Code of the Town of Appomattox, Chapter 32, Sections 1 through 9.

Be it ordained by the Council of the Town of Appomattox, as follows:

Part I:  Administrative Legislation.  Chapter 32:  “Economic Development Authority,” Sections 1
through 9 shall be enacted as follows:

State law reference:  Authority for creation of economic development authority, Code of Virginia, §15.2-
4900, et. seq.

§32-1.  Creation.

There is hereby created, pursuant to the provisions of §§15.2-4900 through 15.2-4920, inclusive of the
Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, a political subdivision of the Commonwealth, to be known as an
Economic Development Authority, with such public and corporate powers as are set forth in such
sections of the Code of Virginia.

§32-2.  Name.

The name of the Authority shall be the “Economic Development Authority of the Town of Appomattox,
Virginia.”

§32-3.  Powers and duties generally.

The Authority shall have the same powers, duties and obligations as set forth in §§15.2-4900 through
15.2-4920, inclusive, of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended.

 §32-4.  Board of directors – Appointment; number.

The Authority shall be governed by a Board of Directors in which all powers of the Authority shall be
vested and which Board shall be composed of seven directors, appointed by the Town Council.

§32-5.  Same – Terms of office; oath, residence; removal from office.

The seven directors shall be appointed initially for terms of one, two, three, and four years; two being
appointed for one-year terms; two being appointed for two year terms; two being appointed for three-
year terms and one being appointed for a four-year term.  Subsequent appointments shall be for terms of
four years, except appointments to fill vacancies which shall be for the unexpired terms.  All terms of
office shall be deemed to commence upon the date of the initial appointment to the authority, and
thereafter, in accordance, with the provisions of the preceding sentence.  If at the end of any term of office
of any director a successor thereto has not been appointed, then the director whose term of office has
expired shall continue to hold office until his successor is appointed and qualified.  Each director shall,
upon appointment or reappointment, before entering upon his duties, take and subscribe the oath
prescribed by §49-1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended.  No director shall be an officer or

4  Regular Council Meeting

Wednesday, October 16, 2013

employee of the Town, except that members of the Town Council may serve as directors provided they do
not comprise a majority of the Board.

Every director shall, at the time of his appointment and thereafter, reside in the Town of Appomattox or
an adjoining locality.  When a director ceases to be a resident of the Town of Appomattox adjoining
jurisdiction, the director’s office shall be vacant and a new director may be appointed for the remainder
of the term.

A member of the Board of Directors of the Authority may be removed from office by the Town Council of
Appomattox without limitation in the event that the board member is absent from any three consecutive
meetings of the Authority, or is absent from any four meetings of the Authority within any 12-month
period.  In either such event, a successor shall be appointed by the Town Council for the unexpired
portion of the term of the member who has been removed.

§32-6.  Same – Officers; compensation.

The directors shall elect from their membership a chairman, a vice-chairman, and from their membership
or not, as they desire, a secretary and treasurer, or a secretary-treasurer, who shall continue to hold such
office until their respective successors shall be elected.  The directors shall receive no salary but may be
compensated such amount per regular, special or committee meeting or per each official representation
as may be approved by the Town Council, not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00) per meeting or
official representation, and shall be reimbursed for necessary traveling and other expenses incurred in
the performance of their duties.

§32-7.  Same – Meetings – Quorum.

Four members of the Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum of the Board for the purposes of
conducting its business and exercising its powers and for all other purposes; except, that no facilities
owned by the Authority shall be leased or disposed of in any manner without a majority vote of the
members of the Board of Directors.  No vacancy in the membership of the Board shall impair the right of
a quorum to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the Board.

§32-8.  Same – Records.

The Board shall keep detailed minutes of its proceedings, which shall be open to public inspection at all
times.  It shall keep suitable records of all its financial transactions and, unless exempted by §30-140 of
the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, it shall arrange to have the records audited annually.  Copies of
each such audit shall be furnished to the Town Council and shall be open to public inspection.

§32–9.  Same – Copies of Internal Revenue Service reports.

Two copies of the report concerning issuance of bonds required to be filed with the United States Internal
Revenue Service shall be certified as true and correct copies by the secretary or assistant secretary of the
authority.  One copy shall be furnished to the Town Council and the other copy mailed to the Department
of Business Assistance until January 1, 2014.  After January 1, 2014, one copy shall be furnished to the
Town Council and the other copy mailed to the Department of Small Business and Supplier Diversity.

This section shall become effective on October 16, 2013.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

5  Regular Council Meeting

Wednesday, October 16, 2013

On a motion by Councilmember Puckette, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted
to appoint the following members to the Economic Development Authority for the Town of
Appomattox:

Andy Carroll, Robert (Bob) P. Goode, Phillip Jamerson, Chad Millner, Lisa Pannell, C. Lewis
McDearmon, Jr., and N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Mayor Harvey thanked all of the applicants.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted
to amend the following lease agreements effective date from November 1, 2013 to December 1,
2013:

a)  Country Charm lease of 967 square feet at the depot for $241.75 per month.

b)  Arts & Crafts Cooperative lease of 1125 square feet at the depot for $281.25 per
month.

c)  DMV lease of 1120 square feet at the Municipal Building for $500.00 per month.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to approve the request from the Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce to hold the
annual Community of Candles event on Saturday, December 7, 2013.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Spiggle, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council voted to
approve the Organizational Chart and Job Descriptions for the Public Works Department of the
Town of Appomattox.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Conner, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council voted
to amend the Water and Sewer Policy to include User Charges, Connection and Availability Fee
Administrative Policy by approving the Water and Sewer Adjustment Policy, specifically the
addition of L – Policy for Relief from Excessive Sewer Bill – Due to Undetectable Water Line
Leak or Break.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Conner, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted to
purchase a pickup truck for the Public Works Department at the state contract price of
$26,711.00 from General Fund Reserves.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Puckette, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted
to approve the following resolution:

6  Regular Council Meeting

Wednesday, October 16, 2013

RESOLUTION

Irrevocable Election Not to Participate in Virginia Local Disability Program

WHEREAS, by enacting Chapter 11.1 of Title 51.1 of the Code of Virginia, the Virginia

General Assembly has established the Virginia Local Disability Program (“VLDP”) for the
payment of short-term and long-term disability benefits for certain participants in the hybrid
retirement program described in Virginia Code §51.1-169; and

WHEREAS, for purposes of VLDP administration, an employer with VLDP-eligible
employees may make an irrevocable election on or before November 1, 2013, requesting that its
eligible employees not participate in VLDP as of the VLDP effective date of January 1, 2014,
because it has or will establish and continue to maintain, comparable employer-paid disability
coverage for such employees that meets or exceeds the coverage set out in Chapter 11.1 of Title
51.1 of the Code of Virginia, with the exception of long term care coverage, by January 1, 2014;
and

WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Town of Appomattox 55358, to make this irrevocable

election to request that its eligible employees not participate in VLDP;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that the Town of Appomattox
irrevocably elects not to participate in VLDP because it has or will establish, and continue to
maintain, comparable employer-paid disability coverage for such employees; and it is further

RESOLVED, that, as an integral part of making this irrevocable election, the Town of

Appomattox certifies that it has or will establish, and continue to maintain, comparable
employer-paid disability coverage for such employees.

Adopted in Appomattox, Virginia this 16th day of October, 2013.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Town Manager Report – none

Citizen Comments – none

Council Concerns –
Mrs. Puckette thanked the members of the EDA.  She is looking forward to working with them.

Mr. Conner stated that the EDA has good people serving.

Ms. Spiggle is very enthusiastic and the Town is making great strides.

Mayor Harvey again thanked everyone who applied.  The Town is very appreciative.

7  Regular Council Meeting

Wednesday, October 16, 2013

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council voted
to adjourn at 8:10 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette , MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

