107

Regular Meeting ~ July 8, 1991

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on
Monday, July 8, 1991, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: R. C. Hubbard, H. W. Conner, Marvin Mitchell,
R. L. Bass, and S. E. Carter. Absent-Carson

Others present: Audrey Wright, F. D. (Bookie) Johnson,
Bill Houchens, Frances Abbitt, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to
adopt the Consent Agenda, with one correction to the minutes on
page one, paragraph 11, add "to the County" and all those present
voting aye. Motion carried.

The Town Council presented a "Plaque of Appreciation" to Mr. Bookie
Johnson for his years of service and dedication at the Town Ball
Park as the Coordinator for the Town.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to
grant Mr. Spiggle, the authority to execute the agreement with the
Virginia Department of Transportation regarding the .31 of an acre
and also the 2.78 acres as needed by the State for the By-Pass,
provided the State primes and seals the parking area and the surface
road with 6" inches of stone with this to be agreed upon in writing.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Mitchell-aye
Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle presented the latest development on the least of the
Depot. Council decided to wait until they have met with the Architect
from the Department of Historic Resources on the Depot, béfore we

do anything further in the way of remodeling.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr Hubbard, Council voted to
appoint Mr. M. E. Gordon, Mr. Murrell Ferguson, and Mr. H. T. Nash, Sr.,
as_the Viewers Committee_for_the_propsed.closing_of_Ethel —_(Lizgzie)— —.--

Street.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted
to authorize David Garrett to purchase a Metro Tech 810 Line Tracer
at an approximate cost of $2100.00, and all those present voting
aye. Motion carried.

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned at 8:35 P.M.

Anant. Aeigtas “5 MAYOR

R.C: Spiggle

