1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 11, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, December 11, 2017
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Margaret Camel, News and Advance; Jeff
Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and
Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance of the United States of America.

Public Appearances – none

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey thanked the Experience Appomattox committee for a very successful Downtown
Christmas event on December 2, 2017.  The “Whoville” themed event attracted over 2000
people.

Mayor Harvey presented a Proclamation to the Appomattox County High School Golf Team and
to the Appomattox County High School Football Team.

Mayor Harvey also wished everyone a happy and safe holiday season.

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for December 11, 2017 as presented.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 6-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to approve the
advertisement and bid package for the Children’s (Kiddie) Park restrooms/equipment room
project.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to move forward the
water and sewer rate study, in house by staff.  All members presented voting aye.  Motion carried
6-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 11, 2017

Staff Reports:
Mrs. Casto – none

Mrs. Ray – Brown, Edwards & Company, LLP has begun the FY 2017 annual audit.  The
software update planned for the middle of December 2017 will require service interruptions.
This process is ongoing with the current financial software provider.

Mr. Elder – The Water Model Study is complete however staff is in the process of reviewing the
material.  This is a time-consuming process.  Pump Station #6 work has been completed.  The
Inflow and Infiltration project is getting started.  The waterline engineering work for Oakleigh
Avenue and Cawthorne Street will need to wait until Spring 2018.

Mr. Shanaberger reported that the Fats, Oils and Grease ordinance amendment will be ready by
the January 8, 2018 Council meeting.  On Tuesday, December 12, 2017 he will be attending a
VEDP meeting in Richmond, Virginia.  He thanked the office staff for their assistance with the
audit.  A special thank you to the facilities department for their hard work.  Gary Christie,
Executive Director of Region 2000 Local Government Council will be making a presentation to
Council at the January 8, 2018 Regular Council meeting.

Ms. Spiggle requested an update on the Little Food Pantry project.  Mr. Shanaberger advised that
after speaking with the Town Attorney the project may be a little more complicated than first
thought.  The requestor will consider other alternatives.

Council Concerns:
Mayor Harvey reminded everyone of the Ribbon Cutting at the Bank of the James building on
December 13, 2017 at 12:00 noon.

Mrs. Puckette inquired about giving Coach Smith a “Key to the Town”.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to provide a “Key to the
Town” on behalf of the Town and Citizens.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 6-0.

Ms. Spiggle wished everyone a blessed Christmas.  Mrs. Puckette and Mr. Garrett concurred.

Mr. Conner reminded Council of the Special Projects such as the Train Station (Depot), Town
Office and Water and Sewer rates.  Funding from VDOT, USDA, and CDBG is dwindling and
the Town needs to learn to depend on its own money.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council adjourned at 8:03 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

