1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 14, 2022

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, March 14, 2022 at
6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present:  James J. Boyce, Sr., Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette, Nathan A.
Simpson, Mary Lou G. Spiggle, Aaron M. Tilton.

Others:  Charles Conrad, Times Virginian; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town
Treasurer; Christy Torrence, Office Manager; and Roxanne W. Casto, Interim Town
Manager/Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Nathan Simpson led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Mayor’s Comments:
Thanked everyone for keeping Rev. Carlton Duck in your prayers.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adopt the consent agenda
for Monday, March 14, 2022 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Unfinished Business – none

New Business
On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to award the Upland
Lane water line extension to Toney Construction in the amount of $91,000 from the Sewer Fund
Project Contingency.
Roll call vote:  Tilton – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Simpson – yes, Puckette –
yes.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to appoint the Town
Manager or Town Clerk, a Public Works employee, Councilman Garrett, and a Town Citizen to
the Housing Oversight Board for the Greater Meadowlark Housing Program.  All members
voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Council Standing Committee Reports:
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Committee is finalizing the list of projects.  Currently
waiting on the estimates for the generators.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 14, 2022

Citizen Comment:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mrs. Casto reminded the Town Council of the Public Hearing at 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday, March
29, 2022 regarding the short-term rental ordinance.

Council Comment:

Mr. Simpson – thanked staff for all the extra work over the last few months.

Ms. Spiggle – stated she is pleased, proud and grateful for the Town staff.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Tilton, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session pursuant to §2.2-3711(A)1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of
discussion of prospective candidates for the position of Town Manager with the Town of
Appomattox, specifically being prospective candidates A and G.

Vote:  Tilton – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Simpson – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

The meeting as reopened to the public.

Closed Session Certification:
Council Member Tilton made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Puckette and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:  Tilton – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Simpson – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 14, 2022

Mayor Conner read the following statement:
The Town Council, as authorized by Virginia Code §2.2-3712(B), within fifteen (15) days of
said announcement, will be interviewing potential Town Manager candidate(s), in Closed
Session, at undisclosed time(s) and location(s).  Following such interview(s), the Council will
certify the same at its next regular schedule meeting.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at 7:40 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

