1  Appomattox Town Council

Meeting
March 22, 2022

The Appomattox Town Council held a meeting on Tuesday, March 22, 2022 at 5:30 p.m. at the
Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Conner
presiding.

Members present:  James J. Boyce, Sr., Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette, Nathan A.
Simpson, Mary Lou G. Spiggle, Aaron M. Tilton, Mayor Richard Conner, Christy Torrence.

On a motion by Councilmember Nathan Simpson, seconded by Councilmember Aaron Tilton,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to ยง2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of
Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of interviewing prospective candidates for the
position of Town Manager with the Town of Appomattox, specifically being candidates A and
G.

Vote:  A. Tilton-aye, J. Boyce-aye, M. Spiggle-aye, T. Garrett-aye, N. Simpson-aye, C. Puckette-
aye.

Council Member James Boyce made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Claudia Puckette and Council by the following
recorded vote adopted the motion:

Vote:  A. Tilton-aye, J. Boyce-aye, M. Spiggle-aye, T. Garrett-aye, N. Simpson-aye, C. Puckette-
aye.

Mayor Conner read the following statement:
The Town Council, as authorized by Virginia Code ยง2.2-3712(B), within fifteen (15) days of
said announcement, will be interviewing potential Town Manager candidate(s), in Closed
Session, at undisclosed time(s) and location(s).  Following such interview(s), the Council will
certify the same at its next regular schedule meeting.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Meeting
March 22, 2022

On a motion by Timmy Garrett, seconded by Mary Lou Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at
8:00 pm. All members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Christy J. Torrence
Office Manager

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

