# REGULAR MEETING – April 12, 2004

Page 1 of 3


-A regular. meating. of. the ‘Appomattox Town ‘Council v was held 0 on. n Monday, April 12, 2004

at 7:30 p.m. with Mayor Spiggle, presiding. ©

Members present: Norman H. Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Joyce Bennett,
Walter H. Carson, Marvin H. Mitchell. Absent ~ Steven E. Lawson.

. Others present: David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager, W. M. Phillips, Town Attorney,

Christie Chapman, News and Advance, Larry Mobley, Charles Garrett, Chad Denton,
Times Virginian, R. B. Moore - VDOT, Marvin Tweedy — VDOT and Roxanne W.
Paulette, Clerk:

Mayor Spiggle opened the meeting with a prayer.

On a. motion by Councilmember Carson, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry, Council
voted 'to approve the consent agenda dated April 12, 2004. All members voting aye.
Motion carried.

R. B. Moore and Marvin Tweedy with VDOT appeared before Council to address site
distance problems at the intersection of Main Street and Church Street. Their
recommendations were turned over to the Street and Property Committee for review.
Standing Committee Reports - .
Property & Street Committee
1) The brick facing at Abbitt Park stage will cost approximately $2600 for labor.
2) David Garrett informed Council that the lights at the Courthouse Square do’
not match the lights downtown. Council advised David not to proceed in
asking the County to consider changing the light fixtures as this would be a
cost borne by the Town. Consensus was not to proceed. —

Fire & Safety Committee
1) The next meetings set for the Rescue Squad, Town & County are April 21,
2004 at 4:00 p.m. and May 3, 2004 at 4:00 p.m. The Town restated its
position. The Town isn’t trying to interfere however; we do feel we have a

vested interest due to the funds that the Town provides to the Rescue Squad.

If there are ways in which we can be of assistance in providing solutions to
the amount of unanswered calls, we want to help.

Utility Committee ~ none

Ordinance — none

Finance — none

Personnel — none