ref: reel_02_0240
date: 1950-02-20
content: Regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on February 20, 1950 with Mayor G. B. Buchanan presiding and the following members present: C. F. James, J. E. Jamerson, C. S. Jenkins, J. C. Caldwell, F. L. Murphy and C. T. Moses, Jr. Mr. E. C. Johnson appeared seeking the possibility of getting town water service to his houses on the northeast side of the corporate limits. This being Mr. Johnson's second inquiry, by a motion duly carried the matter was referred to the Water Committee for prompt investigation and recommendations. Mr. J. Irby appeared before the Council inquiring the possibility for side walks in the Will Crast section of the Town. By a motion duly carried his matter was referred to the Street Committee. Mr. J. A. Burke was present to explain some details of Complete Comprehensive Liability Insurance for the Town and on a motion by C. F. James, seconded by C. T. Moses, Jr. and carried, such coverage was authorized as outlined by Mr. Burke. Minutes of the last were read and corrected as ordinance passed at the last meeting pertaining to parking on Church Street just north of the N&W Crossing to read "one East side parking space only on the north side of the said crossing shall be designated NO PARKING instead of on both sides of Church Street." By a motion duly carried the Mayor was authorized to have the Fire Alarm transferred from its present location to the top of the water tank at Well No. 1. On a motion by F. L. Murphy and seconded by C. T. Moses, Jr. and carried, Licenses shall not be required of persons accommodating tourists for the days and nights of April, 15, 16 and 17th only, for the dedication of the McLean House. Mr. J.W. Cawthorn talked on the need of a public toilet for the colored people and the matter was deferred to see the results of the two such toilets the Health Department is requiring Lewis McDearmon to make available at his Service Station and Restaurant on Church Street. On a motion by C. T. Moses, Jr., seconded by F. L. Murphy and carried it was ordained "That any persons painting by the hour, day or job and not working under a Contractor's License, shall be required to pay to The Town of Appomattox a License fee of $1.25 per year." By a motion duly carried it was agreed that The State Highway Department shall acquire in their maintenance program the remainder of Liberty Road as outlined in their letter of February 9, 1950. By a motion duly carried insurance in the amount of $500.00 on office furniture and fixtures, etc., was authorized and to be written by Mrs. C. W. Smith if she desires to. On a motion by C. F. James, seconded by J. E. Jamerson and carried, the Mayor was authorized to change the Town Policeman's hours of duty from the present 6 P.M. to 2 A.M. to 2 P.M. until 12 midnight. On a motion adjourned.
chunk_id: 19724
record_id: 744
page_number: 1

