1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 29, 2022

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, November 29, 2022 at
6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: James J. Boyce, Sr, Claudia G. Puckette, Mr. Timothy W. Garrett, and Mary
Lou Spiggle, Nathan Simpson

Others present:  Jeff Elder; Facilities Director; Drew and Tiffany Dearing, Carlton Duck; Alive
Media TV; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager and Roxanne W.
Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

Media Improvements

Carlton Duck explained the proposed upgrades to the computer (AV) equipment for the Council
Chambers. He would also like to change the days of the week the meetings will air on the
Shentel channel. Lastly, he discussed with Council expanding the information platform through a
3-to-5-minute segment, explaining projects or grants related to the Town government.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Garrett, the Council voted to approve the media
improvements for the Council Chambers in the amount of $10,000.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Town EDA

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Council voted to appoint Ronald
M. Coleman, Jr. to the Town of Appomattox Economic Development Authority with a term
expiring December 31, 2025. All members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Council Comments:

Mayor Conner-Congressman Good responded to the Town’s letter regarding Fentanyl. A copy
will be provided to each Council member.

Mr. Simpson-none
Mr. Boyce-none

Mrs. Puckette- Requested an update regarding the CCUSA-Campbell Co/Appomattox Co
litigation as the Town has spent $14,000 and another $66,000 is appropriated for research and
work on the ground water wells. Mr. Elder really needs to know for ARPA funding purposes.

Ms. Spiggle-commented the Town cannot wait until 2030 to find out about the Town’s water
supply.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 29, 2022

Mr. Elder responded that the $66,000 remaining is for a SCADA system to be installed to
monitor the wells. He recommends that the Town not spend the ARPA funding on a SCADA
system for the wells until we know we will be using them. The wells can be used without the
SCADA system.

Mr. McGhee added that the town could set its own yellow and red lines for dates that we will
have to make the call not to wait any longer for a resolution to the water purchase contract. Mr.
McGhee said that he and Roxanne Casto attended a meeting recently explaining there is a lot of
money available for water related items.

Mr. Simpson- requested to place this item on hold for 12 months and revisit this topic
collectively as a Council. Mr. Simpson also commented that to use ARPA funding for water
related items like a SCADA system would be a poor decision as water funding opportunities are
always available.

Ms. Puckette-so we could put $66,000 into contingency/non-committed funding?
There was no objection to this option.

Mr. McGhee-asked if anyone knew what SCADA stands for? Supervisory Controls and Data
Acquisition. It means you can run things from afar.

Mrs. Puckette-we discussed at the last meeting the possibility of increasing our limits for the
bidding process. Roxanne looked up the regulations—she talked to Frank Wright and more
information will be available at the next meeting.

Mr. Garrett-none

Ms. Spiggle-none

Council Standing Committee Reports:

Finance and Planning-None

Physical Development Committee-None

ARPA-On a committee recommendation, Council voted to approve $205,000 to CHA for the I &
I study on the SBR side of Town.

Roll call vote:  Boyce-yes, Spiggle-yes, Simpson-yes, Garrett-yes, Puckette-yes.  Motion carried
5-0.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 29, 2022

Staff Reports:

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to approve the following
transactions to the existing Sewer Savings Account: add $144,261.62 to the balance as of 10-31-
2022 to sewer savings of $10,934.38 for a total of $125,196.00. This amount will be the
restricted balance in sewer savings until 11-4-2060 or upon full repayment of the loan. All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Mr. Elder reported on issues at the TFP with hydrogen peroxide and the smell of sewage at the
SBR facility. He also met with Doug Hudgins to discuss left over funding in the I & I/TFP
project. USDA is thinking of allowing the Town to use the balance of funds for a sewer vac
truck, 300 ft of sewer line and 50 additional laterals in Town. Two additional Public Work’s
employees have been hired (last week & 12/12/2022 start dates).

Mrs. Ray provided a report of the Town’s financials as of 10-31-2022. Council provided
consensus of Mrs. Ray’s format of the ARPA funding. Roxanne Casto assisted with the
Worker’s Comp Audit on 11-29-2022. Brown Edwards audit firm will be present on December
12, 2022 to provide the FY 22 audit report.

Ms. Spiggle reported that Don Jones complimented the Town for all the Christmas decorations at
Abbitt Park and the Depot.

Mr. McGhee reported on the following:

➢  The Appomattox County Sheriff’s Office delivered the letter to Mrs. Olivarri. Not much

has changed with this situation.

➢  The Town will have access to a grant to study the old garment factory beginning in

January 2023.

➢  He had a conversation with the Town Attorney regarding liabilities issues with funding a

drug dog for the Sheriff’s Office.

➢  Civic Plus (website) provided the Town with a quote for web services.
➢  Virginia Metal Fab, the Lynchburg Regional Business Alliance along with Ron Martin

were performing a walk through in advance of the Governor’s visit.

Mrs. Casto reminded Council of the Public Hearing planned for December 12, 2022 for
amendments to the R-2 zoning district.

CLOSED SESSION

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Simpson, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711(A)1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended for the
purpose of discussing the performance of a specific public employee, specifically being
Employee A.

ROLL CALL VOTE:  Simpson-aye; Puckette-aye; Garrett-aye; Boyce-aye; Spiggle-aye

4  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
November 29, 2022

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Mr. Boyce made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Ms. Spiggle and Council by the following
recorded vote adopted the motion:

ROLL CALL VOTE:  Boyce-yes; Spiggle-yes; Puckette-yes; Garrett-yes (Simpson left during
closed session) Motion carried 4-0.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at 9:12 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 4-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

