1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 12, 2022

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, December 12, 2022
at 6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present:  James J. Boyce, Sr., Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette, Mary Lou G.
Spiggle.

Absent: Nathan A. Simpson

Others:  Jeff Elder; Blair Smith; Jane and Scotty Allen; Drew and Tiffany Dearing; Carlton
Duck; Janet Hix; Hailey Fox; Susan Chapman; Kim Ray, Treasurer; Dana Glover; Rob Fowler;
R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Public Hearing

TO THE CITIZENS OF THE TOWN OF APPOMATTOX
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARINGS

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that at its meeting to be held on Tuesday, December 6, 2022,
at  the  hour  of  6:00  p.m.  in  the  Town  Council  Meeting  Room,  Appomattox  Town  Office,  210
Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia, the Appomattox Town Planning Commission will conduct
a  public  hearing  on  AN  ORDINANCE  TO  AMEND  the  Code  of  the  Town  of  Appomattox  by
deleting and repealing Chapter 195, Zoning, Article IV to be entitled Residential District, Limited,
R-2 (Village Homes) and replacing it with a new Chapter 195, Article IV to be entitled Residential
District, Limited, R-2.

The Planning Commission will make its recommendation with respect thereto to the Appomattox
Town Council for its consideration at its meeting to be held on Tuesday, December 6, 2022 at 6:00
p.m.

PLEASE  TAKE  FURTHER  NOTICE  that  at  its  meeting  to  be  held  on  Monday,
December 12, 2022, at the hour of 6:30 p.m. in the Town Council Meeting Room, Appomattox
Town  Office,  210  Linden  Street,  Appomattox,  Virginia,  the  Appomattox  Town  Council  will
consider the recommendations of the Planning Commission with respect to the above described
AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND the Code of the Town of Appomattox by deleting and repealing
Chapter 195, Zoning, Article IV to be entitled Residential District, Limited, R-2 (Village Homes)
and replacing it with a new Chapter 195, Article IV to be entitled Residential District, Limited, R-
2.  The Town Council will have said ordinance proposed to it for passage and will hold a public
hearing thereon, pursuant to the same statutory authority.

The  entire  text  of  the  above-noted  revision  is  on  file  in  the  Town  Office,  210  Linden  Street,
Appomattox, Virginia, and can be examined there between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.
Monday through Friday.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 12, 2022

The public is invited to attend and make their views known.

Staff presentation-Mr. Fowler explained this amendment is intended to redefine R-2 and include
short term rentals. The process for permitted uses will remain the same. The Planning
Commission approved the amendment at their meeting on December 6, 2022.

Council Comments-none
Public Comments-none

Mayor Conner closed the hearing.

Action Item:
On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to approve AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND the Code of the Town of Appomattox by deleting and repealing
Chapter 195, Zoning, Article IV to be entitled Residential District, Limited, R-2 (Village Homes)
and replacing it with a new Chapter 195, Zoning, Article IV to be entitled Residential District,
Limited, R-2;

Be it ordained by the Council of the Town of Appomattox, as follows:

Section 1.  The Code of the Town of Appomattox is hereby amended by deleting and repealing
Chapter 195, Zoning, Article IV, Residential District, Limited, R-2 (Village Homes) and

Section 2.  The Code of the Town of Appomattox is hereby amending by adding thereto a new
Chapter to replace Chapter 195, Zoning, Article IV hereinabove repealed, to be Chapter 195,
Zoning, Article IV, Residential District, Limited, R-2 to read as follows:

§ 195-32.1. Statement of Intent.
§ 195-32.2. Permitted Uses.
§ 195-32.3. Lot size; yard regulations.
§ 195-32.4. Uses by Special Use Permit (Development Standards).
§ 195-32.5. Height regulations.
§ 195-32.6. Square footage requirements.
§ 195-32.7. Landscaping requirements.

§ 195-32.  Statement of intent.

This district covers that portion of the community intended for single-family residences
as distinguished by smaller area regulations. This type of residence requires the special
landscaping  or  architectural  treatment  set  forth  in  this  article.  The  standards  contained
herein  are  designed  to  reduce  noise  transmission  between  residences,  reduce  visual
intrusion  and  decrease  the  impact  of  smaller  area  requirements  on  adjacent  properties.
Village homes can only be constructed in specified Residential Districts R-2. A special
use permit is required.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 12, 2022

§ 195-33.  Uses permitted.

Village  homes  are  permitted  in  R-2  Residential  Districts  subject  to  the  approval  of a
tentative site plan including the location of all proposed structures, exterior views,  and
preliminary  landscaping  proposals  showing  the  location,  quantity  and  type  of  plant
materials.

§ 195-34.  Lot size; yard regulations.

A.  Lot area. The minimum lot area shall be 4,500 square feet.

B.  Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 45 feet measured at the point of required setback

line.

C.  Lot depth. The minimum lot depth shall be 75 feet.

D.  Front depth. The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.

E.  Rear yard. All dwellings shall have a minimum rear yard of 15 feet. Unattached buildings

of accessory use shall not be located closer to any rear lot line than five feet.

F.  Side yard. Side yards abutting a public street shall have a setback of not less than 20 feet;
however, side yards not abutting on a public street may be reduced or eliminated, provided
that:

(1)  At least 50% of the side yard reduced by this procedure is made up on the opposite

side of the site;

(2)  Where  a  reduced  side  yard  is  used,  the  abutting  site  must  be  held  under  the  same

ownership at the time of issuance of the building permit;

(3)  Unless a zero side yard is used, the side yard shall not be less than five feet;

(4)  The wall of any structure constructed along a common property line shall be solid
masonry  material  or  other  materials  approved  by  the  statewide  building  code  that
would provide the appropriate fire rating;

(5)  Finished  grade  of  any  proposed  residence  at  the  common  property  line  shall  not
exceed finished grade on the abutting property by more than four feet in height.

§ 195-35.  Height regulations.

No dwelling shall exceed three stories or 35 feet in height whichever is less. Accessory
buildings shall not exceed 15 feet in height.

§ 195-36.  Square footage requirements.

A.  Dwellings  shall  have  a  minimum  of  1,200  square  feet  exclusive  of  porches  and
garages. Additionally, multistory dwellings must contain at least 800 square feet on

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 12, 2022

the  main  level,  and  below-ground  levels  cannot  be  used  to  meet  the  required
minimum area of 1,200 square feet.

B.

In addition to the requirements of Subsection A, all dwellings shall have 100 square
feet  of  enclosed  storage  space.  The  storage  space  may  be  an  integral  part  of  the
dwelling, or it may be in the form of an accessory building meeting the requirements
of this chapter and all other applicable laws.

§ 195-37.  Landscaping requirements.

A.  The yards of Village homes shall be landscaped and shall include, at a minimum, the
installation of one shade tree and three evergreen shrubs or decorative trees and at
least one of the following three landscaping or architectural treatments:

(1)  A front yard raised above the grade of the sidewalk by at least three inches and

four flowering or evergreen shrubs.

(2)  Two decorative trees, a hedge consisting of at least 20 plants, and 10 flowering

or evergreen shrubs or alternatively 20 flowering or evergreen shrubs.

(3)  A berm or earth mound averaging 18 inches above the average grade of the rest
of the yard and covering 20% of the lot not covered by the dwelling or other
structures. The berm or earth mound shall be covered with grass or ground cover
and must be planted with at least four decorative trees or evergreen shrubs.

B.  Standards.  The  requirements  of  "landscaping  requirements"  shall  be  met  prior  to
issuance of an occupancy permit for any dwellings permitted under this chapter.

§ 195-32.1 Statement of intent.

This district covers that portion of the community intended for single-family residences as
distinguished by smaller lot area regulations.   The regulations for this district are designed to
stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of the district, to promote and encourage a
suitable environment for family life where there are children, and to prohibit all activities of a
commercial nature.

§ 195-32.2 Permitted uses.

A.  Single-family dwellings.

B.  Short Term Rentals.

C.  Home occupations, as defined in this chapter, conducted by the occupant.

§ 195-32.3. Lot size; yard regulations.

A.  Lot area. The minimum lot area shall be 4,500 square feet.

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 12, 2022

B.  Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 45 feet measured at the point of required

setback line.

C.  Lot depth. The minimum lot depth shall be 75 feet.

D.  Front depth. The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.

E.  Side yard.  The minimum setback of the side yard shall be at least five feet.

F.  Rear yard. All dwellings shall have a minimum rear yard of 15 feet. Unattached buildings

of accessory use shall not be located closer to any rear lot line than five feet.

§ 195-32.4. Uses by Special Use Permit. (Development Standards)

A.  Village homes are permitted in R-2 Residential Districts subject to the approval of a

tentative site plan including the location of all proposed structures, exterior views, and
preliminary landscaping proposals showing the location, quantity, and type of plant
materials.

B.  Lot area. The minimum lot area shall be 4,500 square feet.

C.  Lot width. The minimum lot width shall be 45 feet measured at the point of required

setback line.

D.  Lot depth. The minimum lot depth shall be 75 feet.

E.  Front depth. The minimum depth of the front yard shall be 25 feet.

F.  Side yard. Side yards abutting a public street shall have a setback of not less than 20 feet;

however, side yards not abutting on a public street may be reduced or eliminated,
provided that:

(1) At least 50% of the side yard reduced by this procedure is made up on the opposite
side of the site;

(2) Where a reduced side yard is used, the abutting site must be held under the same
ownership at the time of issuance of the building permit;

(3) Unless a zero-side yard is used, the side yard shall not be less than five feet;

(4) The wall of any structure constructed along a common property line shall be solid
masonry material or other materials approved by the statewide building code that would
provide the appropriate fire rating;

(5) Finished grade of any proposed residence at the common property line shall not
exceed finished grade on the abutting property by more than four feet in height.

G.  Rear yard. All dwellings shall have a minimum rear yard of 15 feet. Unattached buildings

of accessory use shall not be located closer to any rear lot line than five feet.

6  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 12, 2022

§ 195-32.5. Height regulations.

No dwelling shall exceed three stories or 35 feet in height whichever is less. Accessory
buildings shall not exceed 15 feet in height.

§ 195-32.6. Square footage requirements.

A.  Dwellings shall have a minimum of 1,200 square feet exclusive of porches and garages.

Additionally, multistory dwellings must contain at least 800 square feet on the main level,
and below-ground levels cannot be used to meet the required minimum area of 1,200
square feet.

B. In addition to the requirements of Subsection A, all dwellings shall have 100 square feet of
enclosed storage space. The storage space may be an integral part of the dwelling, or it
may be in the form of an accessory building meeting the requirements of this chapter and
all other applicable laws.

§ 195-32.7. Landscaping requirements.

A. The yards of Village homes shall be landscaped and shall include, at a minimum, the

installation of one shade tree and three evergreen shrubs or decorative trees and at least
one of the following three landscaping or architectural treatments:

(1) A front yard raised above the grade of the sidewalk by at least three inches and four
flowering or evergreen shrubs.

(2) Two decorative trees, a hedge consisting of at least 20 plants, and 10 flowering or
evergreen shrubs or alternatively 20 flowering or evergreen shrubs.

(3) A berm or earth mound averaging 18 inches above the average grade of the rest of
the yard and covering 20% of the lot not covered by the dwelling or other structures. The
berm or earth mound shall be covered with grass or ground cover and must be planted
with at least four decorative trees or evergreen shrubs.

B. Standards. The requirements of "landscaping requirements" shall be met prior to issuance

of an occupancy permit for any dwellings permitted under this chapter.

Section 3.  Effective date.

This ordinance shall become effective on December 12, 2022.

All members present voting aye. Motion carried 4-0.

7  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 12, 2022

Reverend Duck led the Prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Mayor’s Comments: none

Scheduled Public Appearances:

1.  Honorable Janet A. Hix-Appomattox County Circuit Court Clerk administered the oath of

office to the Mayor and each council member.
Mayor Richard Conner-2-year term-January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2024.

Council members Mary Lou Spiggle and Timothy W. Garrett-4-year term-January 1,
2023 to December 31, 2026.

Council members Claudia Puckette, James Boyce, Sr, Jane T. Allen-2-year term-January
1, 2023 to December 31, 2024.

Mr. Nathan Simpson was absent and will appear in Mrs. Hix’s office for his oath to be
administered.

2.  Hailey Fox and Susan Chapman with Brown Edwards appeared before Council to present
the FY 2022 Audit Report. The FY 2022 audit received a clear unmodified audit opinion.
The FY 2022 audit required another single audit due to the amount of federal funding
received. There were no findings or audit issues for the single audit.

Council thanked Ms. Fox and Ms. Chapman for the update/report.

3.  Blair Smith with Dominion Seven Architects appeared before Council to provide an

update on the bid received for the train depot renovations. Jamerson-Lewis Construction
was the only bidder for the project.

Action Item:
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to accept the base bid of
$485,500 and alternate #3-standing Seam Copper for $120,000, making a total of $605,500 from
Jamerson-Lewis Construction for the train depot roofing renovations.
Roll call vote: Boyce-yes, Spiggle-yes, Garrett-yes, Puckette-yes. Motion carried 4-0.

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to approve the consent
agenda for December 12, 2022 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried
4-0.

Unfinished Business: none

New Business
Item #1-action taken immediately following the public hearing.

8  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 12, 2022

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to amend the Utility Policy
for filling of swimming pools, portable tanks, etc. All members present voting aye. Motion
carried 4-0.

Mayors Comments
Friday, December 9, 2022 was a grand day in Appomattox as Virginia Metal Fabrication held
their grand opening and open house. He expressed his excitement of the regrowth of
manufacturing in our community.

He is making it an initiative for Made in America, USA-Made in Hometown, Appomattox. There
was a great deal of publicity for the open house event with representatives from the federal, state,
Town, Lynchburg Regional Business Alliance, and the Virginia Economic Development
Partnership.

Council Standing Committee Reports:
Physical Development Committee-Mr. Garrett reported Council voted to proceed with Depot
renovations.

Finance and Planning Committee: none

ARPA: none

Citizen Comment: none

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. McGhee supplied Council with a written manager’s report however, he added that Council
should wait until a future meeting to decide on whether to move forward with a drug dog for
Appomattox County.

Council Comment:
Mrs. Puckette-Congratulated Jane Allen Council member-elect.

Mr. Boyce-Approached by a citizen for the Town to have a conversation with VDOT for a
handicap space on Main Street.
There is a pothole on Cawthorne Street near the intersection with Red House Road.

Ms. Spiggle-none

Mr. Garrett-Would like for the Town to consider writing a letter to Centra Health requesting a
walk-in clinic in Appomattox. The Appomattox community has a real need for medical services.

9  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 12, 2022

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 7:40 pm.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 4-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

