ref: reel_03_0536
date: 1979-10-15
content: On a motion by Mr. Conner, and seconded by Mr. Lawson, the Council accepted the recommendations of the Property Committee and all members voted aye. 

Council discussed a request from Mr. Britton to remove $5000.00 from the Street Department to the Water Fund to purchase a new well site. 

A motion was made by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Lawson, to make this transfer of funds but was withdrawn from the floor by Mr. Carter and Mr. Lawson when more information was presented. 

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. Carter, to authorize the Town Manager to buy and test the new well site and take the costs of this from the Savings Account.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Gordon-aye Lawson-aye
Motion carried unanimously. 

Mr. Britton reported that the Highway Department has revised their original decision and have come up with a proposal to do something about the situation on Church Street, but at this time, they have not presented the proposal to the Town Manager. 

Mr. Gordon made the motion, seconded by Mr. Carter, to participate in this project on Church Street only so far as acquiring the right-of-way, to solve the drainage problem. 

Conner-aye Carter-aye Lawson-aye Gordon-aye
Motion carried unanimously. 

Mr. Britton reported that the State Water Control Board has written a letter saying that they will not give us direct authorization to connect these two Apartment Complexes to our system, but would advise that if we go over our permit limits, we will have to take action for interim treatment. 

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to request the Town Attorney to draw up an agreement that will bind the property owner and the financer of the two Apartment Complexes to pay for removing 1½ times the amount of I.   being introduced to our system and if at any time after their connection to our system we go over our limits, they will pay for interim treatment according to the requirements set by the State Water Control Board and the Town of Appomattox. 

Conner-aye Gordon-aye Carter-aye Lawson-aye
Motion carried unanimously. 

Council discussed the Town Charter and how they want the new Town Code to be revised and updated. 

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Carter, the Town Council agreed to adopt a resolution to change and amend the Town Charter in accordance with Virginia State Law, but leave in certain sections the Council has elected to keep, if they are in accordance with the State Laws. 

Conner-aye Carter-aye Gordon-aye Lawson-aye
Motion carried unanimously. 

Council approve the Clerk and Town Manager attending certain schools that will benefit their jobs.
chunk_id: 20681
record_id: 1701
page_number: 1

