1  Regular Council Meeting

Monday, November 9, 2009

The Appomattox Town Council held a regular council meeting on Monday, November 9, 2009 at
7:30 pm at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Bryan J. Baine, N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, John T. “Plicky” Williams, Karl E.
Carter, and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.  Absent:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.

Others:  Derek Norfield, Carlton Duck, Stephanie James, Duffie Taylor, Mary Lou Spiggle,
Chad Millner, Benny Harvey, Ben Harvey, Lucy Harvey, Mary Frances Carter, Rev. Ernie
Lucas, Samuel E. Carter, Bart S. Van Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette,
Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the guests.

Rev. Ernie Lucas gave the invocation.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs,
Council voted to adopt the consent agenda of November 9, 2009 as presented.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Public Comments –
Mary Lou Spiggle – 129 Pine Street, Appomattox, Virginia – Spoke to Council regarding the
Town Visioning Process being scheduled on Wednesday nights.  Wednesday is a normal church
night and it is difficult to attend a visioning process meeting on the same night.  She asked for
consideration to change the night or even include a Saturday meeting in the process.

Sam Carter – 307 Morton Lane, Appomattox, Virginia – Congratulated Council on another
successful Railroad Festival.  It is economically beneficial to the Town as well as provides
fellowship for the community.  Without the Town’s support it would not be as successful.  He
thanked Council and congratulated them again for a job well done.

Mayor’s Comments –
Mayor Harvey responded to some of the questions presented to him regarding the Visioning
Process.  The Wednesday nights were chosen because of the location being available.  Mayor
Harvey would speak to staff regarding a daytime or Saturday meeting.  The survey is available at
the Appomattox Town Office, 210 Linden Street for any out of town residents who may to
complete one.  All surveys are due back to the Town Office by November 20, 2009.

Appearances – None

Unfinished Business – None

New Business –
On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs,
Council voted to approve the expenditure of $28,950.00 for the Industrial Park Pump Station.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2  Regular Council Meeting

Monday, November 9, 2009

Council discussed the possibility of cancelling the November Workshop meeting scheduled for
Tuesday, November 24, 2009.  If there is no agenda material for the meeting by Tuesday,
November 17, 2009 Council gave consensus to cancel the meeting.  Notice will be properly
given if the meeting is cancelled.

Appointments to Board, Commissions and Committees –
The Clerk reported that one application had been received for the Board of Zoning Appeals.  The
application will be submitted in December 2009 for consideration.

Pending Matters – none

Council Concerns –
Mr. Mayberry asked for an updated on the SBR remedial progress.  Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise
responded that progress continues on the plant.

Mr. Williams asked for the projected opening date of Wal-Mart.  Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise
responded in the spring of 2010.

Mr. Williams also asked if there were any developments with the Museum of the Confederacy.
Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise replied that the two attorneys (Town & MOC) are working on the
language for the memorandum of understanding.

Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager reported that he had obtained the necessary signatures
for the purchase of the hydraulic equipment for the 2010 Dump Truck at the cost of $8,800.00.

Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise also reported that he had received a request for a bon-fire event on
November 19, 2009 at 6:00 pm to 6:00 pm at the Appomattox Triangle Shopping Center.  The
event meets all the requirements of the burning ordinance.

Mayor Harvey reminded Council of the Ribbon Cutting Ceremony on November 13, 2009 for
the Teen Center on Church Street and November 20, 2009 for the Antiques and More of
Appomattox on Atwood Street hosted by the Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce.

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry,
Council voted to adjourn at approximately 7:45 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

