1  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
November 27, 2018

The Appomattox Town Council held a Council Workshop meeting on Tuesday, November 27,
2018 at 6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Michelle Payne, Times-Virginian; Nathan Simpson, Nick Walton, Carlton Duck,
Susan Adams, County Administrator; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town
Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. J. Garrett, Council voted to amend the agenda to
include a Closed Session.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Ms. M. Spiggle, Council voted to recommend
Steven T. Conner to the Board of Zoning Appeals for Appomattox County.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to clarify an effective
date of the proposed water and sewer rate increase for the public hearing as early as March 1,
2019 with an effective date of July 1, 2019.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to approve and adopt the
Incident and Liability Policy.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Committee Reports – none

Council Concerns:
Mr. Conner met the Regional Manager of Republic Services who assured him they are working
to correct some deficiencies.

Mayor Harvey – Mrs. Susan Adams, County Administrator and Garet Bosiger, Appomattox
County EDA Chairman would like to open the dialog about a joint EDA again.  They are
offering to create a committee to begin discussion.

After a lengthy discussion, Mr. T. Garrett made a motion to table this topic until the January
2019 Workshop Meeting and the minutes of previous meetings can be review.  The motion was
seconded by Mr. J. Garrett.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Mr. Boyce commented on the good job on the water line on Cawthorne Street.

Staff Reports:

2  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
November 27, 2018

Town Treasurer
Mrs. Ray provided the October 2018 Financial report.  She continues to evaluate software
companies.  Mary Earhart will be working with Mrs. Ray on pre-audit services.

Mr. Shanaberger thanked Council again for their willingness to forge this relationship.

Town Manager
Mr. Shanaberger advised Council that Dalgleish Gilpin Paxton Architects would be attending the
Physical Development Committee meeting on December 10, 2018 at 6:00 pm.

The Downtown Revitalization Grant application public hearing is scheduled for December 10,
2018 at 7:30 p.m.

Mr. Shanaberger reminded everyone of the Celebrate the Holiday’s Downtown event on
December 1, 2018.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Council Member Conner, seconded by Council Member J. Garrett, Council
voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A)1 of the Code of Virginia,
1950, as amended, for the purpose of performance of specific public employee, specifically
Employee A.

Vote:  J. Garrett – yes, J. Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette –
yes.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Conner made the following motion:

 WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member J. Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

3  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
November 27, 2018

Vote:  J. Garrett – yes, J. Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette –
yes.

Mr. T. Garrett thanked Mr. Duck for his continued service to the Town of Appomattox.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 7:20 p.m.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

