1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 13, 2018

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Tuesday, November 13,
2018 at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Nathan Simpson, Information Technology
Technician; Rev. Paul Michael Raymond, Jane Raymond, Michelle Payne, Times Virginian
Newspaper; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and Roxanne W.
Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Rev. Paul Michael Raymond appeared before Council to request a tax-exempt status in
accordance with 58.1-3651 of the Code of Virginia for possible purchase on the corner of Harrell
Street and Church Street.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mr. Jeff Elder, Facilities Director is recovering very well and putting in a little time.

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for November 13, 2018 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried
6-0.

Unfinished Business:
On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to approve the multi-
tiered utility rate study and move forward with a public hearing.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

New Business:
None

Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizen Comment Period:
None

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
November 13, 2018

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following:

➢  Train Depot – Mr. Shanaberger reported that Dalgleish Gilpin Paxton Architects
has been working hard on the train depot project.  Dalgleish Gilpin Paxton
Architects will meet with Council on December 10, 2018 to provide an update on
the project as well as an updated timeline.

Mr. T. Garrett inquired if minutes were taken of the Community meeting held at
the train depot?  Mr. Shanaberger will ask Dalgleish Gilpin Paxton to provide
their worksheets of that meeting to Council.

➢  Downtown Revitalization Project – There will be a project management team
meeting tomorrow, November 14, 2018 at 5:30 p.m.  The public hearing is
planned for December 10, 2018.  The parking on that end of town continues to be
explored and the possibility of using a portion of the grant for parking.

➢  Water & Sewer Backup (Incident) Policy – Staff has been working on an Incident

Policy for water and sewer backups.  The policy has been reviewed by the
Virginia Municipal League Insurance Programs and the Town Attorney.  It will
be presented to Town Council for consideration to adopt at the next meeting.

➢  Food Truck Ordinance – The ordinance is nearly complete however he would like

to have Council’s input on fees and requirements.

➢  VDOT – 2 way stop – Mr. Elder and Mr. Shanaberger are looking at ways to

lower the sidewalk on Harrell Street and Church Street behind Main Street and
remove portion of the sidewalk railing.  Business owners do not like the idea of
one-way traffic on Harrell Street.

Council Concerns:
A possible referendum will be presented in May 2020 for 4-year terms of council members and
Mayor.  If it passes it would go to the General Assembly in 2021 with an effective date of July 1,
2021.

Ms. Spiggle wished everyone a blessed Thanksgiving with family and friends.

On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mr. J. Garrett, Council adjourned at 8:02 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

