ref: reel_02_0509
date: 1968-03-18
content: The regular meeting of the Town Council was held in the Council Room on March 18, 1968 at 7:30 p.m. with Mayor H.B. Pack presiding.

Members present were: Mrs. Calvin Robinson, R.L. Bass, Burke Guill, Ivey Holland, R.C. Hubbard, and M.L. Webb.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

Mr. J.V. Torrence and Fred Wooldridge asked if Town water and sewerage would be available for Hickory Street, which is outside of the Town limits. They were told that it is available, and that they will have to pay the costs, build to the Town specifications, and then give the lines to the Town.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The Town Manager reported that arrangements have been made to cut the highway bank back on Oakley Avenue at Ethel Street; and that it would be necessary to pump the sewerage from the three houses on Ethel Street about 25 feet vertically to get it into the Town sewer.

Guill reported there is a need for eight street lights.

Bass moved and Webb seconded: that the eight lights be installed and that the Street Committee be allowed six more lights for future use. Motion carried.

John G. Cole appeared before the Council to explain the County's need for extra revenue for a new school. He discussed the possibility of a $10.00 auto tag for all cars in the County.

Hubbard requested that the Town Manager write the Garment factories about the litter at the Sanitary Fill.

Holland reported that the First Colony Telephone Co. is considering moving their office from Appomattox. He requested the Mayor to write them, requesting that the office be kept here.

Webb reported that the Fire Department needs 8 new fire helmets & coats, to cost about $41.00 per pair. Mrs. Robinson moved and Hubbard seconded: That these be bought. Motion carried.

Holland moved and Hubbard seconded: That a building permit be issued to Walter G. Bruce for a $15,000.00 building on Confederate Avenue. Motion Carried.

Holland moved and Guill seconded: That a building permit be issued to E.O. Johnson for a $500.00 building on Ethel Street. Motion carried.

Holland moved and Bass seconded: That the Virginia Highway Department be requested to maintain a 125 foot stretch of Price Lane provided they accept the maintenance of the extension into the County. Motion carried.
chunk_id: 19980
record_id: 1000
page_number: 1

