ref: reel_03_0060
date: 1975-09-03
content: Mr. Hubbard made the motion to adopt the following resolution, seconded by Mrs. Robinson:

BE IT RESOLVED by the Council of the Town of Appomattox that Mayor Henry B. Pack is hereby authorized to execute and file an application on behalf of the Town of Appomattox with the Virginia State Water Control Board and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for grants to aid in financing Wastewater Treatment Works Construction under provisions of Public Law 92-500, and is authorized to execute any and all documents pertaining thereto.

Ayes 5; Nays 0 Motion carried.

Mr. Guill made the motion to dispense with the reading of the minutes until the next meeting, seconded by Mrs. Robinson.

Mr. Slagle read a portion of the minutes of a Water Committee meeting held on Wednesday, September 3, 1975 concerning a request by D. S. Nash for water service to his trailer park to bring Council up-to-date.

Mr. Spiggle reported the boat and motor are in operation at the Lagoon.

Mr. Spiggle also requested the we send a letter of commendation to Mr. A. R. Harwood for his efforts to beautify several sites within the Town. Mr. Spiggle made the motion seconded by Mr. Guill. Motion carried.

Mr. Spiggle made the motion to deny a request from Talley Sign Company to erect a 35 foot sign at Moses Motor Co., seconded by Mrs. Robinson. Motion Carried.

Mr. House made the motion to go on record as endorsing a proposal prepared by the V.M. L. which provides for the creation of an Urban Development Policy Study, seconded Mr. Spiggle. Ayes 5 Nays 0 Motion carried.

Mr. Spiggle thanked Council for his 2 days in Charlottesville attending a seminar on local government and advised that the seminar was very informative.

Mr. Pack and Mr. Slagle brought Council up-to-date on the Court Street project. We are now down to five parcels left on the right-of-way acquisition.

Signed H. B. Pack Mayor
Signed B. H. Mullins Clerk
chunk_id: 20271
record_id: 1291
page_number: 1

