ref: reel_02_0764
date: 1974-08-19
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council met on Monday, August 19, 1974 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were R. C. Hubbard, M. J. House, Jr., Ronald Spiggle, T. E. Conner, Burke Guill, and Mrs. Earle Robinson.

Others present were Mr. Rick Shaklik of Central Virginia Planning District Commission; Mr. D. H. Gaulden and Mr. Anstey, of the Virginia Department of Highways; and Mrs. Aldah Gordon, representing the Bi-Centennial Commission.

Mr. Gaulden talked on the status of project 131. He explained that the Highway Department needed to know whether the Town would continue the "project" or drop it in view of the rising cost of materials and difficulties in obtaining the right of way. The Council decided to have the Mayor and members of Council visit the property owners and continue with the project.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

The minutes of the Water and Sewer Committee meeting were read.

Mr. Pack introduced Mr. Shaklik to Council. Mr. Shaklik explained the program - Central Virginia Tomorrow- A Partnership Process. He asked the Council to submit the names of people they felt should attend.

Mrs. Aldah Gordon requested Council to donate the sum of $300 to the Bi-Centennial Commission. She explained the Commission needed operating capital and as they have no funds they are soliciting donations. On a motion by Mr. Hubbard seconded by Mr. Guill the Council voted to make a $300 donation. Motion carried.

Mr. Hubbard made a motion to pay $142.00 which represents the Town's share of the consultant in the VEPCO negotiations, seconded by Mr. Conner. Motion carried.

Mr. Slagle explained NPDES Certificates of the State Water Control Board. He reported he has asked for bids from three testing companies. Council discussed this but took no action at this time.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion to authorize Mr. Conner to use his own judgement in the purchase of a public address system for the Depot seconded by Mrs. Robinson. Motion carried.

Council referred to the Street Committee the problem concerning trucks on Lee Street for their study and recommendations.

Council also agreed to furnish water to Mr. Simpson's two trailers that he has requested to station on Lee Grant Avenue.
chunk_id: 20215
record_id: 1235
page_number: 1

