1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 14, 2020

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, September 14,
2020 at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Richard Conner, presiding.

Council members present: Nathan A. Simpson, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, Paul D.
Harvey and Claudia G. Puckette (via phone).

Staff members present: Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Kim Ray, Treasurer; and Roxanne
W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Others present: Carlton Duck, Michelle Murch, Sarah Conner, Jim Boyce, Susan Adams, Bill
Gillespie, Jeff Elder, Don Wilk, Aaron Tilton and Joetricia Humbles.

The meeting was also broadcast LIVE on the Town of Appomattox Facebook page and public
phone participation through FreeConferenceCall.com was available.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

Rev. Carlton Duck, Pastor of the Gethsemane Baptist Church led the prayer and the Pledge of
Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America.

Mayor’s Comments:
None

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Ms. Joetricia Humbles appeared before Council to introduce the group Appomattox For Equality.
It is a non-profit group designed to bridge the gap to repair social equality.  Council thanked Ms.
Humbles for attending.

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to accept the adoption of
the consent agenda for Monday, September 14, 2020 as presented.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. N. Simpson, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to fund the shortfall of
approximately $200,000 for the Sanitary Sewer Improvement project.  Roll Call vote:  Simpson
– yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Harvey – yes, Puckette – yes.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Harvey, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to recommend to the
United States Department of Agriculture/Rural Development the award of the following Sanitary

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 14, 2020

Sewer Improvement Projects, having been advertised and competitively bid, to H. G. Reynolds
Company, Inc:

1 – 2020 Trickling Filter Sanitary Sewer Basin Rehabilitation – Phase II for the sum total
of $699,000.00.
2 – New Sanitary Sewer Force Main – for the sum total of $1,438,435.00.
3 – New Equalization Tank & Pump Station – for the sum total of $3,234,400.00.
Roll Call Vote:  Simpson – yes, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Harvey – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Harvey, Council voted to adopt the 2040 Town
of Appomattox Comprehensive Plan.  All members voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. N. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Harvey, Council voted to adopt a Resolution
of Support for the Lee Grant Avenue Smart Scale project.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to advertise a joint public
hearing to be held on September 29, 2020 to receive public comments regarding an ordinance to
revise a portion of the Code of the Town of Appomattox, in Chapter 195, Article VII “Business
District, Less Intense Use, General, B-1” and Article VIII “B-2 Business District”.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to revise a portion of the
Code of the Town of Appomattox, in Chapter 166 Article I “General Provisions”.  Vote:  Spiggle
– yes, T. Garrett – yes, Harvey – yes, Puckette yes, Simpson – no.  Motion carried 4-1.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Harvey, Council voted to re-act an Ordinance to
Establish Emergency Procedures ending April 13, 2021.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 5-0.

Council Standing Committee Reports:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger provided the following updates:

•  The Advisory Board of the Downtown Revitalization project only received one bid for
the project.  Because of that, they think it would be a good idea to rebid the first round.
•  There will be a public hearing for the Church Street Waterline project on September 16,
2020; the second public hearing will be September 29, 2020 and then followed by a
resolution of support.

Council Comments:
Ms. Spiggle thanked Joetricia Humbles for attending the Council meeting.

Mr. Garrett expressed his concern to Ms. Puckette during her husband’s illness.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
September 14, 2020

Adjournment:
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 8:00 p.m.
All members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

