ref: reel_02_0264
date: 1952-02-18
content: A regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on February 18, 1952 with Mayor G. B. Buchanan presiding and the following members present: Chas. F. James, J. E. Jamerson, J. C. Caldwell, C. T. Moses, Jr. and Mrs. C. H. Robinson.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

On motion by J. C. Caldwell, seconded by Chas. F. James and carried, a resolution was duly adopted and approved, entering into an agreement with the Department of Highways on sidewalk construction as outlined in a letter from the Department of Highways under the date of January 24, 1952 and the resolution under the date of February 18, 1952. Both filed together in the general file under 'P'.

On a motion by Chas. F. James, seconded by Mrs. C. H. Robinson and carried, participation of the Town with the Virginia Retirement System for applicable employees of the Town was authorized and that the Plan of Agreement with the Virginia Retirement System be executed accordingly.

On a motion by Chas. F. James, seconded by C. T. Moses Jr. and carried, the Mayor was authorized to take the necessary steps to improve the effectiveness of the Fire Alarm.

On a motion by J. E. Jamerson, seconded by Mrs. C. H. Robinson and carried, a request of the Town Manager that the Council accept his resignation from the position, effective not later than March 30, 1952 was approved and the Mayor was authorized to secure applications for someone for the position.

On a duly carried motion an audit of the Town Funds was authorized as of the last date of the present Town Manager's accountability to the Town.

By a duly made and carried motion the Town Manager was authorized to refund Dr. D. A. Christian, Sr. and Dr. W. L. Ould $5.25 each and a refund of their town licenses. This is because the State does not require physicians who have practiced as much as forty years to obtain a license for their profession and both these local doctors are eligible.

By a duly carried motion, the Town Ordinance requiring town tags to be displayed on all motor vehicles requiring them will be enforced, and printed notices of this shall be given the purchaser with the Town Auto Tag.

On a motion adjourned.

Signed G. B. Buchanan Mayor
G. B. Buchanan

Signed E. Carroll Smith Clerk
E. Carroll Smith
chunk_id: 19748
record_id: 768
page_number: 1

