1  Appomattox Town Council

Special Call Meeting
October 21, 2009

At the Special Call Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on October 21, 2009 at 6:30
pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council members Bryan J.
Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky” Williams and
Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.  Absent:  Karl E. Carter.   Also in attendance were Nina Beasley,
Chad Millner, Mary Lou Spiggle, Cliff Harvey, Joyce Bennett, Stephanie James, Bart S. Van
Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Mayor Harvey cited the purpose of the meeting and discussion and possible consideration of a
friendly boundary line adjustment as it pertains to the negotiations of the waterline from Concord
to Appomattox.

Maps were distributed to each council member for review and discussion.

Council members Baine and Jamerson-Scruggs suggested that each council member review the
maps and meet individually with the Town Manager to discuss their ideas.

Council members McDearmon and Mayberry requested that boundaries be set in an open
meeting.

Bart Van Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager provided rough preliminary figures for a friendly
boundary line adjustment.  The largest expenses would be the survey ($15,000-$20,000) and
legal fees of ($5000).  An unfriendly boundary line adjustment could cost $100,000 plus
expenses.

Council discussed various footage depths from Highway 460 West.  Council suggested having
the areas on one layout (piece of paper) so that they could easily outline the areas of interest and
then meet with the Town Manager individually.

Mayor Harvey thanked everyone for coming and asked that everyone give their suggestions to
the Town Manager.

On a motion by Council member Williams, seconded by Council member Jamerson-Scruggs,
council voted to adjourn at 7:30 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Town Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

