ref: reel_03_0425
date: 1978-12-11
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, December 11, 1978 at 8:00 P.M. with Mayor R. C. Spiggle presiding.

Those present were R. L. Bass, Samuel E. Carter, M. E. Gordon, T. E. Conner, T. W. Lawson, and R. C. Hubbard.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

The Financial Statement for November was discussed.

Mr. Britton brought Council up-to-date on the Grant for the Sewer System and HUD Grants. He explained that the Facilities Plan on the Sewer System would not be ready until the last of the month.

Council discussed the Grant but took no action at that time.

Mr. Britton also explained the different types of HUD Grants available for 1979. We stand a good chance of getting the money to construct the water line to the new tank and maybe a portion of the money needed for the 25% of the Sewer Grant.

A request for taking over the well at Central Virginia Electric Company was discussed by Council, but no action was taken. Mr. Britton was asked to check into this further.

Mr. Britton reported on the bids for Cable TV. Due to a mix up in the bidding and the advertisement the bids could not be opened at the due date. The Town needs to advertise for four consecutive weeks and then the bids can be opened.

Mr. R. C. Hubbard made the motion, seconded by Mr. T. W. Lawson to adopt the proposed Budget for 1979.

Mr. Hubbard withdrew his motion and Mr. Lawson withdrew his second, with the agreement of the other Council members because of some prior action that was directly reflective in the Budget.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion, seconded by Mr. Gordon, that the Town Water/Sewer Ordinance be changed from a rate of $.38 per $100 dollars of assessed valuation of property to 100% of the total water bill for the year.

Lawson (excused from voting by Mayor Spiggle) Conner - aye Gordon - aye Bass - aye Gordon-aye Hubbard-aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion, seconded by Mr. T. W. Lawson, to adopt the proposed Budget for 1979 as presented to Council. (See attached copy)

Hubbard-aye Gordon-aye Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye

Mr. Carter made the motion, seconded by Mr. Lawson, to expend the Revenue Sharing Funds of approximately 17,500.00 in the way presented to Council at the previous reconvened meeting of Council on November 15, 1978.
chunk_id: 20577
record_id: 1597
page_number: 1

