ref: reel_03_0228
date: 1977-07-11
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, July 11, 1977 at 7:30 P.M. with Vice-Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Members present were: R. C. Hubbard, M. J. House, Jr., Burke Guill, and T. E. Conner.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

Mr. Britton read the minutes of the combined Water & Sewer Committee meeting. On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Guill, with all members voting yes, to accept the recommendations of the Committee and give Mr. W. E. Jamerson permission to connect, the new Ben Franklin Store and the new Revco Store, to the Town water and sewer system.

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. House with all members voting yes, to pay T. E. Brown Construction Company for the parking lot at J. E. Sears & Co., Inc. in accordance with the letter dated October 1, 1975.

Mr. House made the motion, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, with all members voting yes, to accept the Addendum of the 1976 Water and Sewer Plan for Central Virginia.

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. House, with all members voting yes, to authorize Mr. Britton and Mr. Spiggle to attend the local Governmental Officials Conference in Charlottesville, August 22 and 23rd.

Mr. Britton briefed Council on the Institute of Planning Commissioners at the University of Virginia, September 18-20. On a motion by Mr. Hubbard seconded by Mr. Guill, with all members voting yes, to authorize Mr. Britton to attend this institute.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, with all members voting yes, to authorize Mr. Britton to purchase an acylene welder for the Town Shop at a price of $259.00.

On a motion by Mr. House, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, with all members voting yes, to make a new water tap for Mrs. Mabel Simpson for her Store on Church Street with no charge to her.

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by House, with all members voting yes, to appropriate the $790.00 as our portion for the Drug Action Force, and refer the Criminal Justice Plan for 1978 to the Planning Commission for their review.

Mr. House reported on a request from the Fire Department to remove the old fire alarm from the Hardware and put it on the Fire Dept. House. Mr. Guill made the motion, seconded by House, to approve the removal and installing of the old Fire Alarm at the new location at no expense to the Town. All members voting yes.
chunk_id: 20419
record_id: 1439
page_number: 1

