1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 23, 2024

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, January 23, 2024, at 6:30
p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: Jane T. Allen, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette,
and Nathan A. Simpson.

Absent:  James J. Boyce, Sr.

Others present: Carlton Duck, Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry
McGhee, Town Manager and Christy J. Torrence, Interim Clerk of Council, Mrs. Nathan
Simpson, Sheriff Robert Richardson

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

SCHEDULED PUBLIC APPEARANCES:
The Honorable Sheriff Robert “Robby” Richardson appeared before Council to introduce
himself as the new sheriff of Appomattox County. He thanked the Town for the drug dog that
was provided and said that they were already seeing results at the middle school and they credit
the new dog for the improvement.

Sheriff Richardson asked if the Town had it in the CIP to provide a vehicle every three (3) years.
Mrs. Ray said it was not in the CIP and the car that the Town purchased last year was ARPA
funded. Mr. Simpson proposed that Council sign a sixty (60) to ninety (90) day extension to the
current MOU with the commitments made in the last budget cycle which included increasing the
sheriff stipend and raises for two (2) deputies. Mr. Simpson would like to use this time to refine
the CIP. Mr. Simpson would like for staff to work with the Town attorney to make this a “living”
document.

DISCUSSION:
On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, the Council voted to select Dominion
7 to develop a proposal for the Town Hall renovation. All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried 5-0.

Mr. Simpson led a discussion regarding implementing a property maintenance code. Pamplin has
something similar in their code and it has been successful. There are several properties in Town
that we’d like to encourage the owners to do something with, Mr. Simpson stated. If the building
is in egregious violation of the building code, we can require the owner to fix it or demolish it.
Staff will do further research.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Council voted to approve the out-of-
town water request for 136 Peaceful Meadow Rd Spout Spring, VA 24593.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 23, 2024

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Council voted to approve the out-of-
town water request for Lot 12 Woodchase Subdivision Map #63-8-12. All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

COUNCIL COMMENTS:
Allen – none

Spiggle – none

Garrett-Received a request from the fire department. They have been using and maintaining a
1946 fire truck that belongs to the town. They would like for the Town to consider donating it to
the fire department.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Simpson, the Council voted to donate the 1946
fire truck to the fire department by signing over the title. Vote:  4 – ayes, 1 – abstain.  Mr. Garrett
abstained from voting citing a conflict of interest as a member of the fire department.  Motion
carried 4-0-1.

Puckette – none

Simpson – Approached by the mayor of Pamplin. Pamplin is not represented by the Board of
Zoning Appeals. Mr. Simpson believes that they should be represented and would like to appeal
to the Board of Supervisors to raise the number of members on the BOZ so the Town of Pamplin
can be represented. Requested staff investigate this. Excited about the Property Maintenance
Code and thanked Council members for supporting it. Has been disturbed by a loud noise very
early in the morning on two (2) different occasions only to discover the disturbance was a GFL
trash truck. They are violating the County noise ordinance. Would like a letter written to GFL as
a show cause. They need to give us a written response.

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS:

Finance and Planning/ARPA – None

Physical Development Committee - None

STAFF REPORTS:

Mr. Elder provided updates on the following items:

➢  The Church Street waterline replacement project has made it to Red House Rd. Hope to

make 100 feet per day. They are a little ahead of schedule.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 23, 2024

Kim Ray, Treasurer provided updates on the following items:

➢  The December 2023 financial report.
➢  Budget calendar is in the meeting packet; first budget meeting will take place March 11,

2024 at 5:45 pm.

➢  We may need to increase the budget line item used for employee recognition—meals, etc.
➢  Requests for donations will be due in by March 8, reviewed by Council on March 11

during the budget meeting, and people seeking donations will present to Council March
26.

Christy Torrence, Interim Clerk of Council provided an update on the following:

➢  Gave an update on the utility bills that were lost in the mail. The majority of customers

who receive bills outside of the 24522 zip code received their bills. No bills inside of the
24522 zip code were received. Customer service sent out a second bill to all customers
with a balance and the due date has been extended until February 5. We will reevaluate
on the 5th before we do disconnects on the 6th.

Mr. McGhee provided a written report on January 22, 2024. He provided an update on the
following:

➢  He has received a request from the new Chairman of the Appomattox County Board of
Supervisors (BOS). They are requesting a meeting between the Town Manager, the
County Administrator, and both legal counsels.
Mayor Conner: I have attempted to get a breakfast meeting with the chairman of the
Board of Supervisors and have not received a decent response.
Mrs. Puckette: Our attorney asked that we get an agenda. Did we get an agenda?
Ms. Spiggle: We were advised by our legal counsel not to meet publicly. I respect
everyone on the board and the administrator, but we have never met as a Council with the
Board. For them to suggest that it be with you (the mayor) and you (the Town Manager)
and omit the Council who has the voting rights and decision rights on anything proposed,
to me, is ludicrous. No, you don’t have my permission to meet.
Nathan: I don’t think it’s appropriate. If the chairman and mayor want to have an
unofficial breakfast meeting but an official meeting with staff and the attorneys,
absolutely not. My suggestion-we propose something very clearly and they can say yes or
no. We propose a joint meeting over a catered meal. We have a publicly advertised
agenda. Gives us a chance to interact. We can pick two or three topics.
Mr. McGhee will come up with some topic ideas.

4  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 23, 2024

ADJOURNMENT:

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Simpson, the Council voted to adjourn at 8:36 p.m.
All council members present voting aye. Motion carried 5-0.

Christy J. Torrence, Interim Clerk

                        Richard C. Conner

Mayor

