1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 8, 2024

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, January 8, 2023, at
6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Conner, presiding.

Members present:  Jane T. Allen, James J. Boyce, Sr., Claudia G. Puckette, Mary Lou G.
Spiggle, and Timothy W. Garrett.

Absent:  Nathan A. Simpson

Others: Carlton Duck, Alive Media; Kim Ray, Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town Manager;
Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council; Jeff Elder, Director of Public Works; Christy Torrence,
Office Manager and Charles Conrad

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order at 6:30 p.m.

Reverend Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Mayor Conner welcomed everyone to the meeting.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Town Council voted to adopt the
consent agenda as presented for January 8, 2024.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 5-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mr. Garrett, the Council voted to write off FY 2024
uncollected balances, specifically $2591.42 for 2018 Personal Property taxes and $1,158.58 for
2020 Utility bills.

ROLL CALL VOTE:  Allen – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, the Council voted to reappoint Kenny
Gobble to the Town of Appomattox Economic Development Authority for a four-year term
beginning January 1, 2024.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

A discussion was held regarding the vacancies on the Town of Appomattox Economic
Development Authority. Mr. McDearmon resigned effective immediately and Mr. Simpson does

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 8, 2024

not want to serve after his term expires. Mr. McGhee will post the vacancies on the Town
website.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Garrett, the Council voted to reappoint Steve
Conner as a Town Representative on the Joint Board of Zoning Appeals for five (5) year term
ending December 31, 2028.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Council Standing Committee Reports:

ARPA: None

Finance and Planning Committee: None

Physical Development Committee: None

Citizen Comment:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
In addition to his email sent on January 5, 2024, Mr. McGhee mentioned the following:

•  The new website has been up since last week.
•  There will be a public recognition ceremony on Friday, January 12 at 4:00 pm,
celebrating Roxanne Casto’s retirement after 30 years of service to the Town.

•  An update was given on the waterline project—it is moving along at 80-100 ft per day.

The Cawthorne St issue with the road closure sign and the garbage truck will be
addressed.

•  Positive feedback was received regarding the Christmas luncheon.
•  Jeff Elder is back to work.
•  Nathan Harbin will be at the January workshop meeting.
•  Suggests using Dominion 7 Architects for Town Hall renovations.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711(A)1, for the purpose of assignment, appointment,
promotion, and performance or resignation of specific public officers, appointees, or employees
of any public body, specifically being Appointee A and Employee B pursuant to Virginia Code
Section 2.2-3711(A)(1).

ROLL CALL VOTE:  Allen – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 5-0.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 8, 2024

Council Member Spiggle made the following motion:

To the best of each member’s knowledge, the only subjects just discussed or considered in the
preceding closed meeting were those: (i) lawfully exempted from the FOIA Act’s open-meeting
requirements and (ii) properly identified in the motion that convened the closed meeting,
pursuant to Virginia Code Section 2.2-3712(D).

The motion was seconded by Council Member Puckette and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

ROLL CALL VOTE: Allen – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Ms. Puckette, the Council voted to appoint Christy
Torrence as Interim Town Clerk beginning January 13, 2024.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 5-0.

Council Comments:

Mr. Boyce:  Happy New Year and looking forward to 2024. Mrs. Casto has been a big blessing.

Ms. Allen: Happy New Year!

Mr. Garrett:  Thank you to Mrs. Casto for putting up with the Council.

Ms. Spiggle:  Thanked Mrs. Casto for doing more than her job description. It has been a
wonderful situation.

Ms. Puckette:  Thank you to Mrs. Casto.

N. Simpson:  absent

Mayor Conner: Thanked Mrs. Casto for all of her assistance.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
January 8, 2024

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Boyce, the Council voted to adjourn at 7:40 pm.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Christy Torrence
Interim Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

