194

Regular Meeting - November 11, 1985
The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday,
November 11, 1985, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, R. L. Bass,
Ray Noble, H. W. Conner, and S. E. Carter.

Others present were: W. R. Britton, Jr., Bernard C. Proctor, and
B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, the Agenda with one
addition to New Business, 2. Discussion of the Telephone, was :approved

“and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the
minutes of the October 14, 1985, meeting as submitted and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council approved the
Financial Statement for the months of September and October, 1985, and
all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Webb, Council voted to table
and defer the question of a meeting with the Highway Department's Engineer and
the Insurance Representative and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to accept ,
the recommendations of the Viewers' Committee and pay the $50.00 fee
to each of the members.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Hubbard-aye Conner-aye Webb-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to close the
Street on the west side of the Sefter property provided the Town is given
the easement on the east side of the property.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Nobbe-aye Webb-aye
Motion carried.

Mr. Britton reported that on the John Cole easement, he has authorized
three water and sewer connections at no cost, and an additional sewer
taps to be made at. the cost of time and materials waiving the $400.00
connection fee,

Mr. Britton was requested to obtain more information on the Personal
Computers and bring it back to Council.

Council the meeting adjourned.

C

R. C. Spigg]

There being no further business to come bef

(= MAYOR

\
j
