1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 17, 2016

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, October 16, 2016
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette

Others present:  Carlton Duck & Bobby Harris, Alive Media TV; Daniel Puckette, Times
Virginian Newspaper; Ashlie Walter, News & Advance; Noah Harris, Anne Dixon, Kelly
Hitchcock, Ernie Price, Dana Mayberry, Barry Letterman, Linda Lipscomb, Sue Cochrane,
Charles Clausman, Representatives from Wolfbane Productions, and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk
of Council

Mayor Harvey called the Regular Council meeting to order.

Rev. Bobby Harris led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Barry Letterman, Sheriff, Appomattox County gave a quarterly update to Council.

Linda Lipscomb - Director, Museum of the Confederacy, Appomattox
Mrs. Lipscomb appeared before Council as a representative of the newly formed Appomattox
Tourism Alliance.  The alliance will be applying for a marketing leveraging grant through the
Virginia Tourism Corporation.  The request to the Town was for a $1500.00 contribution and a
letter of support.

Kelly Hitchcock, Senior Planner, Region 2000 Local Government Council –
Mrs. Hitchcock appeared before Council to discuss the April 15, 2016 application deadline for
the FLAP (Federal Land Access Program).  Council would be committing $72,000 along with a
letter of support.  The trail will be on VDOT right of way, small portion around the Museum of
the Confederacy.

On a motion by Ms. Puckette, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to set aside the
money for this project over the next two (2) years and provide the letter of support for the FLAP
application.
Roll call vote -  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Finch – yes, Conner – yes,
Puckette – yes.  Motion carried.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey reminded Council members of the Downtown Revitalization meeting on Tuesday,
October 18, 2016 from 5:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. at the 1848 Church, LLC (building).

He also advised Council of the Veterans Day Ceremony at the Appomattox Courthouse Square
on Friday, November 11, 2016 at 11:00 a.m.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 17, 2016

Consent Agenda -
On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda with the addition of Item VIII – Standing Committee Report.  Vote:  Garrett – aye,
McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

Old Business – none

New Business –
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to approve the
Surveying/Engineering Services Fee Proposal from WW Associates for the Meadowlark
Neighborhood Revitalization Project and approve the funds necessary of $14,000.  Vote:  Garrett
– aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion
carried.

Standing Committee Reports –
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to authorize $35,000
previously identified in the Town’s Capital Improvement Plan – Water Fund to be appropriated
for Water Modeling Services to be completed by MRG Consulting, LLC. Vote:  Garrett – aye,
McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to authorize $500.00
for Legislative Liaison Services for Central Virginia Training Center (Amherst County).   Vote:
Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to authorize $2500.00 for
additional split rail fencing at the Appomattox Community (Children’s) Park.  Vote:  Garrett –
aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.  Motion
carried.

On a motion by Ms. Finch, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to hold a grand opening and
ribbon cutting at the Appomattox Community (Children’s) Park on Tuesday, October 25, 2016 at
5:00 p.m.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to hold a joint meeting with
the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday, October 25, 2016 at 6:00 p.m.  Vote:
Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye, Puckette – aye.
Motion carried.

Citizen Comment Period – None

Council Concerns:
Mr. Garrett asked how does one join the Appomattox Tourism Alliance and can Council be
provided a list of who has given what amounts to the Marketing Leveraging Grant?

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
October 17, 2016

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to fund $1,500 from the
current Tourism budget for the project.  Roll call vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle
– yes, Finch – yes, Conner – no, Puckette – yes.  Motion carried 5-1.

Mrs. Puckette thanked everyone for attending the Town’s Annual Community Picnic.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adjourn at 8:40
p.m.  Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Finch – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

