1  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
June 27, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a workshop meeting on Tuesday, June 27, 2017 at 6:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G.
Puckette.

Absent: C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr. and M. Erin Finch

Others present:  Jeff Elder, Facilities Manager; Kim Ray, Clarence Monday, Interim Town
Manager; Roxanne Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to table the update and
discussion of the Aquatic Play Area and Restrooms/Aquatic Play Area Equipment Room until
July 10, 2017 at the Regular Council meeting.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to table until further notice,
the request for a sidewalk on Church Street from the Searcy property to Liberty Baptist Church.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to refer the request to
abandon an unopened portion of Autumn Lane to the Appomattox Town Planning Commission.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to refer the request for a
Conditional Use Permit by the Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce for a sign permit to
the Appomattox Town Planning Commission.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Update on FY 2018 Staff Salary Increases
Mr. Monday thanked Council for their graciousness with $40,000 to provide merit increases of
2.7% to all employees with a satisfactory or better performance evaluation.  There were also six
(6) positions regraded to alleviate some compression issues.  Communication with all employees
is being prepared for distribution.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session, pursuant to ยง2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose
of discussion of a prospective candidate for employment, specifically being an applicant for the
position of Town Manager and pursuant to ยง2.2-3711 (A) 6 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the investment of public funds where
competition or bargaining is involved, where, if made public initially, the financial interest of the
governmental unit would be adversely affected, specifically being the discussion of a proposed
contract for the employment of a Town Manager.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
June 27, 2017

VOTE: Garrett-aye, McDearmon-absent, Spiggle-aye, Conner-aye, Puckette-aye, Finch-absent.
Motion carried 4-0.

The motion was re-opened to the public.

Mr. Garrett made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a Closed Session on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded voted and in accordance with provisions of the Virginia
Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the close meeting were heard, discussed or considered by this Council.

The motion was seconded by Ms. Spiggle, and Council by the following recorded vote adopted
the motion:

VOTE: Garrett-aye, McDearmon-absent, Spiggle-aye, Conner-aye, Puckette-aye, Finch-absent.
Motion carried 4-0.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to hire Gary Shanaberger as
the Appomattox Town Manager.  Council further agrees to exercise the contract and authorizes
Mayor Harvey to execute on behalf of the Town.
ROLL CALL VOTE: Garrett-aye, McDearmon-absent, Spiggle-aye, Conner-aye, Puckette-aye,
Finch-absent. Motion carried 4-0.

Council Concerns
Mrs. Puckette reported on a complaint she received this week regarding loud, disruptive noises
outside of a restaurant establishment on Atwood Street at approximately 2:00 a.m.  Mr. Garrett
suggested writing a letter to the owner of the property.

Staff Reports
None

3  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
June 27, 2017

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 7:40 pm. All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 4-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

