1  Appomattox Town Council

Public Hearing
June 12, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a Public Hearing on Monday, June 12, 2017 at 6:30 p.m. at
the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor
Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Margaret Camel, News & Advance; Teresa Gabrielson, Times Virginian; Jeff
Elder, Facilities Manager; Frank A. Wright, Jr., Town Attorney; Clarence Monday, Interim
Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and opened the public hearing by reading the
following stated purpose of the hearing:

Notice is hereby given that the Town Council of the Town of Appomattox, Virginia (the
“Council”) will hold a public hearing to receive public comment and to consider the adoption of:
(1) a proposed Resolution (the “Interim Note Authorizing Resolution”) authorizing the issuance
by  the  Town  of  an  aggregate  not-to-exceed  $2,000,000  Town  of  Appomattox,  Virginia
Promissory Note (the “Interim Note”) to the Bank of the James (the “Bank”), and (2) a proposed
Resolution  (the  “Bond  Authorizing  Resolution”)  authorizing  the  issuance  by  the  Town  of
Appomattox,  Virginia  (the  “Town”)  of  an  aggregate  not-to-exceed  $3,780,000  Town  of
Appomattox, Virginia Sewer Revenue Bond, Series 2017, in one or more series (the “Bond”), to
the United States of America, acting through Rural Utilities Service, an Agency of United States
Department of Agriculture (“RUS”).

The Town shall use the proceeds of the Interim Note and the Bond,  together with other
monies lawfully available  to  the  Town to pay  capital costs in order  to provide  a portion of the
funds needed by the Town to (i) acquire, construct, rehabilitate, and equip various improvements
to the Town’s sewer system and facilities related thereto, including but not limited to Trickling
Filter  Sanitary  Sewer  Basin  Rehabilitation  –  Phase  I  –  a  system-wide  rehabilitation  of  existing
sanitary sewer, which includes approximately 14,104 LF of  cleaning  and CCTV, 23,681 LF of
pipe lining, 1,141 LF of pipe bursting, 233 lateral rehabilitations and reconnections, 4 sewer line
point  repairs  and  8  manhole  installation  and  a  system-wide  rehabilitation  of  existing  sanitary
manholes, which includes approximately frame and cover rehabilitation of 26 manholes, raising
manhole frame to grade for 6 manholes, cementitious lining on 325 FLT of manhole walls and
miscellaneous  interior  rehabilitation  items  and  (ii)  pay  issuance  costs  in  connection  with  the
Interim Note and the Bond (collectively, the “Project”).

The  Bank  has  offered  to  provide  interim  financing  for  the  Project  represented  by  the
Interim Note in an original principal amount up to $2,000,000.  The interest on the Interim Note
shall  be  2.270%  per  annum  for  a  term  up  to  two  years.    The  payment  of  the  principal  of  and
interest on the Interim Note shall be unsecured.

The  Bond  would  be  issued  by  the  Town  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  a  letter  to  the  Town
dated  April  29,  2015  from  RUS  (the  “Letter  of  Conditions”)  and  further,  the  provisions  of  the

2  Appomattox Town Council

Public Hearing
June 12, 2017

Bond Authorizing Resolution and the Form RD 1780-27 Loan Resolution, as required by RUS to
set forth the form and details of the Bond to be considered for approval by the Council on June
12, 2017 during the regular meeting thereof.  The Town will also consider approval of the Form
RD 1780-12 Grant Agreement.

As set forth in the Letter of Conditions, RUS has advised that the Project is eligible for
permanent,  long-term  financial  assistance  which  shall  consist  of  a  $3,780,000  loan  represented
by the Bond and a grant in an amount up to $1,879,000 for a total funding award for the Project
in  an  amount  up  to  $5,659,000.    The  interest  on  the  $3,780,000  loan  to  be  represented  by  the
Bond shall be 2.125% per annum for a term up to 40 years.  The payment of the principal of and
the interest on the Bond shall be secured by a pledge of the revenues of the Town’s sewer system
on  parity  with  all  other  obligations  of  the  Town  secured  by  revenues  of  the  Town’s  sewer
system.  The Town also shall provide for the establishment and maintenance of reserve accounts
in connection with the Bond, as required under the Letter of Conditions.

The public hearing, which may be continued or adjourned, will be held before the Town
Council at 6:30 p.m. on Monday, June 12, 2017, at the Appomattox Municipal Building, located
at  210  Linden  Street,  Appomattox,  Virginia  24522.    Any  person  interested  in  the  Project,  the
Town’s issuances of the Interim Note or the Bond, or any other matters in connection with such
total  financial  assistance  to  the  Town  (all  as  described  above)  may  appear  at  the  hearing  and
present  his  or  her  views.    The  Council  may  set  time  limits  on  speakers  and  other  rules  and
procedures for the conduct of this public hearing.

Information  regarding  the  Project,  including  such  total  interim  and  permanent  financial
assistance, may be inspected by the public at the Appomattox Municipal Building located at the
address  given  above.    Written  comments  may  be  forwarded  to  the  Council  prior  to  the  public
hearing in care of the Town Manager at the address given above.

There were no public comments.

Mayor Harvey closed the hearing.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

