ref: reel_03_0674
date: 1982-10-11
content: Regular Meeting - October 11, 1982

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, October 11, 1982, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: R. C. Hubbard, W. H. Carson, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, S. E. Carter, and T. W. Lawson.

Also present were: Mrs. Carolyn Coleman, Teacher, David Fedison, Joe Servis, Daniel Slade, Chris Barr, Chuck Wilkerson, Brent Harrison, Robert W. Coleman, Danny Richardson, Bobby R. Swanberg, Members of Mrs. Coleman's 6th grade class, Mr. Servis, Bill Sherrod, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council adopted the Agenda with one addition to New Business, Item 2. Halloween, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the minutes of the September 1982 meeting, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to table Item 2, Old Business, until the November meeting, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. S. E. Carter, Chairman of the Property Committee, reported that his Committee is still working on the Ball Park and Depot proposals.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council appointed Mr. S. E. Carter, as a member of the Central Virginia Planning District Commission representing the Town of Appomattox and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to adopt the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox wishes to become a member of the Central Virginia Planning District Commission;

WHEREAS, the Central Virginia Planning District Commission has approved the Town's request for membership;

WHEREAS, the question of membership was introduced to Council at its regular meeting held on Monday, October 11, 1982;

AND WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox must adopt the Charter Agreement of the Central Virginia Planning District Commission, Articles I thru X;

THEREUPON, On a motion by Mr. R. L. Bass, seconded by Mr. Thomas W. Lawson, and by unanimous vote of the six members present, the Town of Appomattox Town Council does hereby adopt the Charter Agreement, Articles I thru X, for a period of one year, and hereby appoints Mr. S. E. Carter, to serve as the elected representative of the Town Council.
chunk_id: 20761
record_id: 1781
page_number: 1

