ref: reel_03_0675
date: 1982-10-11
content: Carson-aye Hubbard-aye Bass-aye Carter-aye Noble-aye Lawson-aye Motion carried unanimously. (see complete copy in Council file - October)

Mayor Spiggle reported that Miss Bonnie France, Bond Attorney has notified us that the Town Charter will have to be changed in order for the Town to borrow the money from FmHA. The first step will be to hold a Public Hearing and then adopt a resolution to change the Charter. The proposed ordinance will have to be submitted to the FmHA for their approval and then come back for Council's approval.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to advertise for a Public Hearing to be held on November 1, 1982, at 7:00 P.M. in the Town Office, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried unanimously. (see copy of notice in Council file-October 1982).

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to send the proposed ordinance authorizing the issuance, sale and award, of a $500,000, Town of Appomattox Sewer System Revenue Bond, Series of 1982, and providing for the form, Details and payment thereof, to the Farmers Home Administration for their Approval.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Carter-aye Motion Carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council adopted the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the Patrick Henry Boys Home does an outstanding Community Service; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox realizes that this organization is outgrowing its facilities due to the expanding need for their services;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council would support and welcome a Satellite of this Boys Home should they decide to locate in this area.

Carson-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Lawson-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council adopted the following resolution:

WHEREAS, Halloween falls on Sunday this year;

AND WHEREAS, Sunday being a time for Church and other related activities;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council in conjunction with the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors does hereby proclaim that Halloween be observed on Saturday, October 30, 1982 this year.
chunk_id: 20762
record_id: 1782
page_number: 1

