ref: reel_03_0856
date: 1984-02-13
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, February 13, 1984, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, H. W. Conner, S. E. Carter, and Martin Webb.

Others present were: Richard Robinson, Marian Greenwell, Frances Abbitt, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council approved the agenda with one addition to New Business, Item 4, Clarification for Auditors, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, the minutes of the Jan. 12, 1984 regular meeting was approved with one typographical error to page 2, paragraph 9, Mr. Hubbard aye, instead of Mr. Noble, twice, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Richard Robinson appeared before Council to discuss his application for rezoning.

On a motion by Mr. Bass seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to refer the request for rezoning to allow Funeral Homes in R-2 to the Appomattox Planning Commission for their recommendations.

Carter-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Webb-aye Motion carried.

Mrs. Marian Greenwell, Lyn Community Action Group, appeared before Council to discuss the Job Program that can be made available to the Town.

Mr. Bill Cox, Burger-King, appeared before Council to request permission to open the Game Room at Burger King on Sundays.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the Financial Statement for December, 1983, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. S. E. Carter, reported on the Property Committee meeting. He briefly went over the recommendations.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to accept the Property Committee's recommendations' (See copy of Property Committee minutes).

Carter-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Conner-aye Noble-aye Webb-aye Motion carried unanimously.

Item 3, New Business was referred to the March, 1984 meeting.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to grant Mrs. Mullins, her seven week Medical Leave of Absence beginning Tuesday, February 21, 1984, and running through the second week of April, if needed.
chunk_id: 20873
record_id: 1893
page_number: 1

