ref: reel_03_0234
date: 1977-10-10
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, October 10, 1977 with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were R. C. Hubbard, T. E. Conner, Burke Guill, R. C. Spiggle, and M. J. House, Jr.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved with an addition of a motion which Mr. Spiggle made and was left out of the official record:

"Mr. Spiggle made the motion to purchase the two shotguns for the Police Department but the motion died for lack of a second."

Mr. Britton reviewed the Town Financial Statement with Council.

On a motion by Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Hubbard to adopt the following resolution:

Whereas, the Appomattox Town Council desires Harrell Street, from Lee Street, to Church Street to be improved by widening of existing pavement, of curb and gutter, storm sewers if necessary and sidewalks;

Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council, request the Virginia Department of Highways to give consideration for an allocation of funds for this project;

Be It Further Resolved, that the Town Council of Appomattox has provided the rights of way, and would participate in this project.

Conner - aye    Guill - aye    Spiggle - aye    House - aye    Hubbard - aye

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. House, to elect to pay the "contributory method" of Unemployment Tax as provided for in Section 60-1-72.

Conner - aye    Guill - aye    Hubbard - aye    House - aye    Spiggle - aye

Mr. Britton reported on the status of the Water Tank Road. It is now complete and ready for paving.

Mr. Britton reported that he has received a letter from the State Water Control Board stating that the Town of Appomattox has been placed in a special category and the Enforcement Department and Attorney General are working on a Special Order that we can sign.

Council requested Mr. Britton to send appropriate letters of appreciation to the Junior Woman's Club and Police Department for their work on the Railroad Festival.

Mr. Britton reported on the proposed cost of the addition to the Fire House. The proposed cost for three bays was $63,000 with engineers cost being 10%, which would make the total cost of $70,000. For the second floor it would be $78,000. (So it could be added on later.)
chunk_id: 20425
record_id: 1445
page_number: 1

