Page 2 of 3
Council minutes - August 13, 1990

Bernard Proctor appeared before Council to discuss the Community
Center sewer line, the National Park Service sewer and the
Re-Hab Projects.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted
to wiave the water and sewer availability fees for the Appomattox
Primary School Addition and they pay only the cost of connection
and the meter. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to
authorize the Engineer Bernie Proctor to advertise and let the
bids for the Sewer Rehab Project from Morris Avenue to

Lee Grant Avenue and Oakleigh Avenue to Lucy Street and all

those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle reported Well 39 has a high Iron and Manganese
content. We have run two tests and are running and third to
get the results. Even though the cost to treat the water is
high it will be cheaper than a water impoundment. The csots
could go as high as 65,000.00. of)

The problems with the Digestor is still being worked on and
a solution by be forthcoming.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council
voted to approve the Financial Statements for May, June, July,
1990, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council
voted to deny the request from Harkins-Humphrey Associates
for re-zoning of. the. property on Route 26 from B-1 to R=2,
in light of the recommendations of the Appomattox Planning
Commission for denial and the residents disapproval.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Carson-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye
Mitchell-aye Motion carried.

-On—a—_motion—by Mr. -Conner,—_seconded—by_Mr .—Bass, -Counei.t-

Netter

it
(
I
i
|
i
i
I:
|
|
|

voted to deny the request from the Highway Department for
some relief from the penalty on the water bill as per Town
policy and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council
voted to approve a request from Mrs. Sallie Garst for a
Conditional Use Permit for Parks at Appomattox on property
owned by Fred Jones off State Route 1012.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Carson~aye
Mitchell-aye Motion carried.

