# REGULAR MEETING – January 12, 2004

Page 1 of 4


The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, January 12,
2004 at 7:30 p.m. with Mayor Spiggle, presiding. : :

Members present: W. H. Carson, N. H. Mayberry, C. L. McDearmon, 8. E. Lawson, ;

Joyce Bennett and M. H. Mitchell.

Others present: Bob White, Region 2000 Regional Commission; Kelly Hitchcock,
Region 2000 Regional Commission; Chuck Warner, Larry Mobley, Charles Garrett,
Chad Miller, John Aughenbaugh, Justin Brooks, Curtis Brown, Jessica Evans, Michael
Filiaggi, Andy Sorrell, Virginia Tech; Chad Denton, Times Virginian Newspaper, David
T. Garrett, Jz., Town Manager; William M. Phillips, Town Attorney; and Roxanne W.
Paulette, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to approve
the consent agenda. All members present voting aye. Motion cartied.

John Aughenbaugh and Chad Miller along with Virginia Tech students gave a

__ presentation to the Town Council regarding their Performance and Benchmarking Study

of the Town of Appomattox.

Kelly Hitchcock of Region 2000 Regional Commission gave a presentation regarding the
Virginia Greenways and Blueways Executive Summary and asked for support from the
Town Council for their continuing efforts. :

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Ms, Bennett, Council voted to endorse the .
project and convey to the Region 2000 Regional Commission, All members voting aye.
Motion catried,

Standing Committee Reports —

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, Chairman of the Utility Committee, Council approved
an amendment to the contract between the Town and George E. Jones & Sons, Inc., dated
August 15, 2003, for certain improvements to the town’s water system to include the
following sewer line improvement, East Lee Grant Avenue $123,800.00 and hereby
authorizes the Town Manager to executive the necessary change orders to effect the
amendment. All members voting aye. Motion carried.