# REGULAR MEETING – January 12, 2004

Page 2 of 3

January 12, 2004
Council Meeting

On a motion by Mr, Mitchell, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to waive
Sovreign Immunity and give Mr. Lawson fair value as determined by the insurance
company after further investigation.

Vote: Mayberry — aye, Mitchell — aye, Bennett — aye, McDearmon — aye. Carson — No.
Lawson — abstained.

Motion carried.

On a motion by Ms, Bennett, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to grant Friday,

January 16, 2004 Lee Jackson Day in addition to Monday, January 19, 2004 Martin L.

King, Jr, Day, All members voting aye. Motion carried,

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to approve
the 2004 Regular and Workshop meeting schedule. All members voting aye. Motion
carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to Table Item
NB ~ 4 Consideration to approve Charles M. Warner conditional use permit to build
apartment houses on Lucy Street to the January 27, 2004 Workshop Meeting. All
members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to convene in
Closed Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 A.7 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as
amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel regarding specific legal
matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel. .

Vote: :
McDeatrmon — aye, Mayberry — aye, Carson — aye, Lawson ~ aye, Bennett — —aye,
Mitchell — aye.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to
the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully
exempted from open meeting requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed
meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business
matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard,
discussed, or considered by this council.

Vote:
McDearmon — aye, Mayberry — aye, Carson ~ aye, Lawson — aye, Bennett -- aye,
Mitchell —- aye.