ref: reel_03_0532
date: 1979-09-26
content: Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye
Motion carried.

Mr. Britton reported that as of tonight the Town may not have to allow existing Section 8 Housing. The two requests for Apartment House Complex's could take care of this requirement by HUD.

At this time the Mayor called for an Executive Session, as called for in Section 2.1-344, Code of Virginia. He cited that the only items that can be discussed are public property land acquisition and personnel.

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, to hold an Executive Session at this time.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

The Mayor re-opened the Council meeting to continue on with the Agenda.

Mr. Britton informed Council that he has received a letter from our Bond Counsel with definite contradictions to what has gone before so the Sewer Ordinance can not be considered at this time.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Bass, the following resolution for Signatory Authority on the Regional Wastewater Facility Project was adopted:

BE IT RESOLVED that the Town of Appomattox does hereby authorize the Town Manager of the Town of Appomattox, Mr. William R. Britton, Jr., to sign all grant applications and all subsequent documents related to the referenced project for the Town of Appomattox, Appomattox, Virginia.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Carter, the following resolution for a Sewer Use Ordinance was adopted:

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox anticipates receiving Federal Funds from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to construct sewerage facilities in the Town; and

WHEREAS, EPA regulations require the Grantee to enact and enforce a sewer use ordinance;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town of Appomattox, agrees to enact and enforce a Sewer Use Ordinance setting uniform requirements for the construction of new sewers and connections to the Town's sewerage facilities prior to the completion of EPA Project No. C-510536-04.

Conner-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye
Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20678
record_id: 1698
page_number: 1

