ref: reel_03_0685
date: 1983-01-01
content: On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to advertise only the summary of the 1983 Budget with the additions of the Revenue Sharing expenditures, and a brief statement that the entire Budget can be reviewed at the Town Office during Business hours.

Carson-aye Carter-aye Lawson-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Item 3, Old Business, was tabled until a later date, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to adopt the Grease Trap Ordinance as proposed with the addition that the grease trap meet Health Department regulations and that all new Restaurants be required to install the grease trap and all other Restaurants be given six months to have the grease trap installed.

Carter-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to deny the request for a Street Light on Countryside Drive and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

Mayor Spiggle read the Bid proposals for a new 1983 pick-up to Council. Two Bids were submitted, one from Lawson Ford and one from Moses Motor Company, Inc. Council discussed the bids.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to accept the Bid proposal from Moses Motor Company, Inc. with the Trade-in for a total of $6,995.00. (Copy in Council file January 1983).

Carson-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Motion carried.

Council discussed the problems with Cable TV, at great length. It was the general consensus of Town Council that they request a change from CNN to Cable News Network on Channel 8.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to go with the "Super Now Account" on the Town's checking account at Farmers National Bank and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to renew the lease for the Arts & Crafts Coop on a "month to month" lease beginning April 1, 1983, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to have the Auditor of Public Accounts Audit the Town's books for 1982, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Noble reported on the requested variances for the Rescue Squad.

Mr. Carson had to leave at this time.
chunk_id: 20771
record_id: 1791
page_number: 1

