ref: reel_03_0831
date: 1983-04-11
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, April 11, 1983 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those Members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Ray Noble, R. L. Bass, and T. W. Lawson.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council approved the Agenda with the following additions; Old Business, 10. Virginia Municipal League - New Business, 5. Stitch N Station lease, 6. Approval of Grant Application for Litter, 7. Michelin Company proposal, and 8. Appomattox Chamber of Commerce request for funds, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the minutes of the March 14, 1983, meeting and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council referred the proposal for telephone service to the Property Committee for their study and recommendations. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to approve the Financial Statement for the month of March, 1983, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Carson spoke to Council on his decision to resign his position as Councilman. Mayor Spiggle asked that it be so noted that a vacancy now exists on Council.

The Planning Commission has requested permission to do further study on the "mobile home" definition and bring back their recommendations to the May meeting.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to accept the proposal from Consumer/Dornin Adams in the amount of $5,245.00 for replacing the roof on the Municipal Building.

Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried.

The report on the Business License was referred to the next meeting for further study.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to accept the "amendment I" to the Contract with Wilson Electric Company for a disconnect, at a cost of $275.00 making the contract price now 20,662.00 and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to adopt the amendment to the Cable TV Franchise as stated in the Advertisement and also that no connection fee for citizens 62 years of age.

Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20850
record_id: 1870
page_number: 1

