ref: reel_03_0832
date: 1983-05-01
content: On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to leave the Section 10.5, Town Code, as is and therefore, they deny the change requested by Burger-King and Quik-E-Foods.

Carter-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried by a 4 to 1 vote.

Council noted for the record the letter from the Appomattox Station Arts & Crafts Coop. They feel that they can make no decisions at this time.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to not pay the bill from Virginia Municipal League on their negotiations with VEPCO in the amount of $787.00 and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council adopted the following resolution on Cooperative Purchasing, (Copy filed in Council file dated April 1983).

Lawson-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Carter-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council adopted the following resolution on the 460 By-Pass:
   
   RESOLVED, by the Appomattox Town Council
   to continue to support the Highway Department
   Project 7460-006-101-C501, the Appomattox
   By-Pass.
   
Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried.

Mr. Britton reported that Mrs. Addie C. Ould wants to sell both pieces of property that she owns adjacent to the Town Shop for the sum of $15,300.00 plus the expenses for the recording of the deed.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council referred the purchase of this property to the Property Committee and give them the authority to act, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council authorized Mr. Britton to attend the Annual Managers Conference May 18-20, with his wife and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to continue Mrs. Linda Stewart's lease for the Stitch N Station on a month-by-month basis, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20851
record_id: 1871
page_number: 1

