1   Regular Council Meeting
     Monday, February 11, 2013

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council Meeting on Monday, February
11, 2013 at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street,
Appomattox, Virginia, with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, N.H. “Jimmy”
Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.

Others Present:  Ed McCann, Cory Hodges, Caleb Baker, Stephanie James (Times
Virginian), Katrina Koerting (News & Advance), Philipp Gabathuler (Region 2000 Local
Government Council), Carlton Duck and Alive TV Crew, Stacey Wilkes, Town
Treasurer; C. William Gillespie, Interim Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk
of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed everyone.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer.

Rev. Carlton Duck also led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Scheduled Public Appearances:  None

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey extended a thank you to all staff members on behalf of himself and
council members.

Consent Agenda
On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Conner,
Council voted to adopt the consent agenda of February 11, 2013.  All members present
voting aye.  Motion carried.

Unfinished Business
None

New Business

On a recommendation of the Finance & Planning Committee and Physical Development
Committee, Council voted to authorize the Mayor to enter into an Agreement with Utility
Service Partners Private Label, Inc. d/b/a Service Line Warranties of America (SLWA)
on behalf of the Town of Appomattox.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Conner, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council
voted to appoint the following members to the Appomattox Town Planning Commission.
Marvin Mitchell, Roger Carson, Erin Finch, S. L. Ferguson, Jr., Claudia Puckette.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2   Regular Council Meeting
     Monday, February 11, 2013

On a motion by Councilmember Puckette, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council
voted to adopt the following resolution:

Adoption of the Region 2000 Hazard Mitigation Plan

Whereas, the Disaster Mitigation Act of 2000, as amended, requires that local
governments develop and adopt natural hazard mitigation plans in order to receive
certain federal assistance, and

Whereas, the Region 2000 Project Management Team representing the Town of
Appomattox, as well as the remaining 10 localities of Region 2000 were convened in
order to study the Region’s risks from and vulnerability to natural hazards, and to make
recommendations on mitigating the efforts of such hazards on the Region; and

Whereas, the Project Management Team was provided staff support by Region 2000; and

Whereas, the efforts of the Project Management Team, the staff of Region 2000 as well as
members of the public, private and nonprofit sectors, have resulted in the development of
the Region 2000 Hazard Mitigation Plan.

Now, therefore, be it resolved by the Appomattox Town Council that the Region 2000
Hazard Mitigation Plan dated December 2012 is hereby approved and adopted for the
Town of Appomattox.

Adopted by the Appomattox Town Council this 11th day of February 2013.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Mayor Harvey presented the following FFA Proclamation:

 NATIONAL FFA WEEK
FEBRUARY 16TH – 23RD, 2013

Whereas, FFA and agricultural education provide a strong foundation for the youth of
America and the future of the food, fiber and natural resources systems; and

Whereas, FFA promotes premier leadership, personal growth and career success among
its members; and

Whereas, agricultural education and FFA ensure a steady supply of young professionals
to meet the growing demands in the science, business and technology of agriculture; and

Whereas, the FFA motto – “learning to do, doing to learn, earning to live, living to
serve” – gives direction of purpose to these students who take an active role in
succeeding in agricultural education; and

3   Regular Council Meeting
     Monday, February 11, 2013

Whereas, FFA promotes citizenship, volunteerism, patriotism and cooperation.

Therefore, I do hereby designate the week of February 16 and 23, 2013 as FFA Week.

On a motion by Councilmember Spiggle, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council
voted to adopt the following resolution:

RESOLUTION TO DECLARE THE TOWN OF APPOMATTOX’S INTENT
CONCERNING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE VIRGINIA STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS

WHEREAS, the Commonwealth of Virginia updated the Virginia Stormwater Management
Regulations during the 2012 General Assembly session to require every locality in Virginia to
adopt a Virginia Stormwater Management Program (VSMP); and

WHEREAS, Virginia Stormwater Management Program (VSMP) means a program, approved by
the Virginia Soil and Water Conservation Board, to manage the quality and quantity of runoff
resulting from land-disturbing activities and shall include items such as local ordinances, rules,
permit requirements, annual standards, and specifications, policies and guidelines, technical
materials, and requirements for plan review, inspections, enforcement, and evaluation consistent
with the regulations; and

WHEREAS, towns are excluded from this requirement (VSMP), unless such town operates a
regulated Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4); and

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox does not operate a regulated Municipal Separate Storm
Sewer System (MS4), therefore not being required to develop its own program(VSMP); and

WHEREAS, towns are subject to the Virginia Stormwater Management Regulations and may
adopt its own program (VSMP) or be subject to the county program (VSMP); and

WHEREAS, the County of Appomattox is currently developing a Virginia Stormwater
Management Program (VSMP) in compliance with state law; and

WHEREAS, the County of Appomattox’s Stormwater Management Program (VSMP) will take
effect July 1, 2014; and

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox is a political subdivision operating within the County of
Appomattox and seeks to work cooperatively with the County on stormwater management issues
for the betterment of the community as a whole;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town of Appomattox declares its intent to
defer to the County of Appomattox’s program and will rely on the County of Appomattox for
administration, inspection and enforcement of the Virginia Stormwater Management Regulations.

All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

4   Regular Council Meeting
     Monday, February 11, 2013

Town Manager report included an update on the proposed Zoning Ordinance and Map.  It
is being prepared and will then undergo legal review before an anticipated public hearing
of Spring 2013.

Citizen Comment Period – none

Council Concerns – none

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett,
Council voted to adjourn at 8:00 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

___________________________________
Roxanne W. Paulette, MMC
Clerk of Council

______________________________
Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

