ref: reel_03_0840
date: 1983-06-13
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, June 13, 1983 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding. Those members present: R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, and S. E. Carter. Absent: T. W. Lawson. Others present were: Dorinda Saxton, Sue Book, Tom Moore, Jen Hancock, Bookie Johnson, Bernard Procter, Bill Sherrod, W. R. Britton, Jr. and B. H. Mullins, Clerk. The meeting was opened with a prayer. On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council approved the Agenda with the addition of Item 6. Loitering Ordinance to New Business, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried. On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Bass, the minutes of the May meeting were approved as submitted and all members present voting aye. Motion carried. Mayor Spiggle reported to Council concerning the Depot. J. E. Jamerson and Sons, Inc. is not going to renovate the Depot. Mrs. Linda Stewart is moving as of May 30, 1983 out of the Depot. Mrs. Virginia Hancock and Mr. Tom Moore have both requested permission to rent the two rooms of the depot. On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Ray Noble, Council voted to refer these requests to the Property Committee for their study and recommendations, to bring this back to Council, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried. Mrs. Dorinda Saxton and Sue Book appeared before Council to speak on the problem with people congregating on business lots after hours. Mrs. Saxton asked to have a letter she had written to the Sheriff's Department entered into the minutes. She is requesting that the Town check into the possibility of a 'No Loitering' ordinance. Council requested Mr. Britton to check with the Town Attorney to see if the 'No Loitering' Ordinance for the County can be enforced by the Town Police Officers. On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to table Item 6, with part C of this being withdrawn by letter, until the July meeting and all members present voting aye. Motion carried. Mr. Fred 'Bookie' Johnson appeared before the Town Council to bring them up-to-date on the Ball Park. On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to charge a fee of $150.00 for any Tournaments at the Town Ball Park. Carter-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Webb-aye Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20857
record_id: 1877
page_number: 1

