1  Regular Council Meeting
    Monday, December 12, 2011

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council Meeting on Monday, December
12, 2011 at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street,
Appomattox, Virginia, with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Mary Lou
Spiggle, N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Joyce B. Bennett

Others Present:  Sammy Carter, Cliff Harvey, Chad Milner, Stephanie James, Carlton
Duck and Alive TV Crew, Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; C. William Gillespie, Interim
Town Manager; Rhonda W. Guill, Deputy Clerk and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of
Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the invocation.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Public Appearances - None

Mayors Comments
Mayor Harvey wished the staff and all the citizens a Merry Christmas and Happy New
Year.  He wants us to remember the less fortunate during the holiday season.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry,
Council voted to adopt the Consent Agenda for December 12, 2011.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Unfinished Business – None

New Business
Mr. Gillespie thanked Council for their hard work on the Priorities and Initiatives, he
added they did a much better job this year focusing on what they wanted to accomplish.
He asked staff to create their own list of Priorities they would like to see accomplished.
He asked Council to review all the Priorities and Initiatives for the calendar year 2012 as
it will be presented at the January 9, 2012 Council meeting for approval and adoption.

Town Manager Update
Mr. Gillespie reported that he and Mr. Elder have been working on the cameras for the
Town Parks.  They are still trying to get in touch with the company that made the
proposal.  He hopes to have more information in January.

Citizen Comment Period – None

Council Concerns – None

2  Regular Council Meeting
    Monday, December 12, 2011

Closed Session – None

On a motion by Councilmember Bennett, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council
voted to adjourn the Regular Council meeting at 7:40 p.m.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

