ref: reel_03_0602
date: 1980-12-18
content: The recessed and reconvened meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Thursday, December 18, 1980, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: R. C. Hubbard, W. H. Carson, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, and T. W. Lawson. Absent: T. E. Conner.

Also present were: Bernie Procter, May-Hines & Associates, Jack Torbert, representing the Boxing Club, B. H. Mullins, Clerk, and W. R. Britton, Town Manager.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Agenda was approved with one addition: Purchase of a tank for the Fire Tank Truck, with a motion from Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, and all members voting aye.

The minutes of the previous meeting on December 8, 1980 were approved as submitted.

Bernie Procter, May-Associates, briefed Town Council on their recommendation that a bid from Wallace & Tiernan, for Cathodic Protection System at a cost of $4,140.00 and a maintenance agreement after the first year at a cost of $205.00 be accepted.

After a brief discussion, Mr. Bass made the motion, seconded by Mr. Noble, to accept May-Hines & Associates recommendation for acceptance of a bid from Wallace & Tiernan for Cathodic Protection System on the new Water Tank at a total of $4,140.00 and a maintenance agreement fee of $205.00 after the first year.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

Bernie Procter also briefed Council on the latest news on the Sewerage Plant and E.P.A. amendments.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, the following resolution on the Sewerage Project was adopted:

Resolved, by the Appomattox Town Council at its recessed and reconvened session held on December 18, 1980, that the following actions be taken:

1. That the Town of Appomattox does hereby accept the Site Re-Evaluation Study dated December 5, 1980, and authorizes its submittal to the State Water Control Board for review.

2. That the Town of Appomattox does hereby authorize the submittal of a request for additional funding and the Infiltration and Inflow proposal be presented for review by the State Water Control Board in conjunction with its review of the Site Re-evaluation Study.

3. That the Town Council does hereby authorize the
chunk_id: 20711
record_id: 1731
page_number: 1

