ref: reel_03_0600
date: 1980-12-08
content: Page 3 - December 8, 1980
for the administration, implementation, and completion of the Program as it is described in the attached Application Form LC-G-1, and
Further accepts responsibility jointly with the County of Appomattox and the Town of Pamplin for all phases of the Program; and
Further accepts liability for its pro rata share of any funds not properly used or accounted for pursuant to the Regulations and the Application, and
That said funds, when received, will be transferred immediately, to the County of Appomattox if not coordinated by the Planning District Commission, said funds will be sent directly to the Planning District Commission by the Department. All funds will be used in the Cooperative Program to which we give our endorsement and support.
Hereby requests the Department of Conservation and Economic Development, Division of Litter Control, to consider and approve the Application and Program, said Program being in accord with Regulations governing use and expenditure of said funds.
Conner-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.
Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council authorized Mr. Britton to receive sealed bids on a 1956 Flat Bed Dump Truck, and accept the highest bid.
Conner-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.
On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to go with the new Blue Cross-Blue Shield Program, as presented by the Town Manager, and at an additional costs per member of $16.80 per year.
Conner-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye
Motion carried unanimously.
Mr. Britton explained the question of R=1, single family residence, he has had several requests from citizens wishing to rent out their basements.
Items, 2, 8, Old Business, and Items, 1, 4, New Business will be referred to the reconvened meeting on December 18, 1980.
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to go into Executive Session, in accordance with Section 2.1-344 of the State Code, for discussion of personnel.
Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Carson-Absent
from the room. Motion carried unanimously.
Mayor Spiggle reconvened the regular Council meeting at 9:30 P.M.
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council was requested to give additional pay increases to certain employees as incentive raises. The motion was defeated on a two for and four against vote.
chunk_id: 20709
record_id: 1729
page_number: 1

