1  Joint Meeting

Appomattox Town Council & Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
September 28, 2010

The Appomattox Town Council met jointly with the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
on Tuesday, September 28, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210
Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia.

Town of Appomattox – Present:  Paul D. Harvey, Mayor; Council Members:  Joyce Bennett,
Steve Conner, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Mary Lou Spiggle, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr. and
Timmy Garrett.  Others: Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of
Council.

County of Appomattox – Present:  Board Members: Gary Tanner, Thomas Conrad, W. H. Craft,
Samuel Carter, Jerry Small, Johnny G. Overstreet, County Attorney; Aileen T. Ferguson, County
Administrator;  Johnnie Roark, County Planner; and Vicky Phelps, Administrative Assistant.

Mayor Harvey called the Appomattox Town Council to order.

Chairman Tanner called the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors to order.

Supervisor Small delivered the invocation.

Mayor Harvey led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor Harvey informed the Council that it has contracted with Aqua Law (Chris Pomeroy) to
help craft an agreement between the Town and County.

The Council and Board heard from Mr. Earl Dickerson, Hurt & Proffitt, Inc.  Hurt & Proffitt,
Inc. has been working on the design of the Concord to Appomattox waterline and grant/loan
submission.

Mr. Earl Dickerson:
In April 2009, Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. was given a contract to proceed with design of the 460
waterline.  The drawings were submitted to VDH.  Comments were received in June/July of
2010.  H&P is expecting final plans with approval by the end of October 2010.  The plans have
been reviewed by VDOT.  It will not be placed in the median but it will be off the shoulder of the
road.  The Preliminary Engineering Report was prepared initially and sent to Rural
Development.  The VDH was approved the PER.  Rural Development looked at the PER in 2009
but nothing happened because the Town was not on board.  Now that the Town is a customer
Rural Development will be provided with an up to date copy to review.

Rural Development has been involved since 2009 and money was available at that time.

The stimulus money has all been spent.  The Rural Development funding option would likely be
a grant/loan combination.

2  Joint Meeting

Appomattox Town Council & Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
September 28, 2010

Rural Development
The rates have dropped from 2.735% to 2.5% for 40 years.  Back during the stimulus days we
were being told 75% (Grant) and 25% (Loan).  The federal government fiscal year begins
October 1, 2010.  USDA doesn’t know what their program will be at this time.

The County has been offered 4.27 million by the Virginia Department of Health in low interest
loan – 2.5% interest rate, 20 years.  The Board of Supervisors recently voted to accept $2.5
million of the $4.27 million.  In my opinion (Earl) there is a possibility of Tobacco Commission
to receive a grant.

Early in the process, the County met with CCUSA to discuss the rate of $2.27 per 1000 gallons.
Once it was known that the Town would be a customer, Johnnie Roark and Earl Dickerson met
with Mike Damron to discuss the rate methodology to reduce the costs being passed on to
Appomattox County.  Mike agreed to that approach.  The rate for 250,000 gallons per day.  If
between the Town and County the rate would be $1.86  -- 200,000 gallons per day would be
$1.97.  As the volume decreases, the rate increases and vice versa.

Even at the rates we are projecting here, by numbers given by the Town Manager approximately
a year ago, the cost of water at the well head per 1000 gallons there would be a potential savings
of $20,000 – 30,000 per year.

On July 27, 2010, the CCUSA board approved the cost of treated water to Appomattox.

The contract is final but waiting to be executed.

The upcoming schedule:

•  Expect plans (construction drawings) by the end of October 2010.
•  Railroad Crossing easement
•  The negotiation of 23 permanent and 15 temporary easements.  The negotiation will be

•

complete by the second week of October 2010.
If the County decides not to pursue Rural Development funding, bidding by mid-late
November 2010.  Likely receive bids after the 1st of 2011.  The low bidder under contract
by the end of January/February 2011.

•  Under construction/complete by Spring 2012 or before.

Questions/Answers:
Q:  Mr. Conner asked if we can proceed without Rural Development funding?
A:  Mr. Roark stated that the County has the funds available but the board has not given the

okay to proceed.

Q:  Mr. Conner asked if Rural Development had unfunded mandates?
A:  Mr. Dickerson stated that Rural Development requires the locality to charge

$4000/month.  These people pay the same for 4000 gallons as they did for 5000 gallons
per month.  The requirement with Rural Development is the Median Household Income

3  Joint Meeting

Appomattox Town Council & Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
September 28, 2010

(MHI) x 1.5% / 12 months equals the rate the locality would need to charge for debt
service.

Q:  Mr. Conner asked if this would be for the life of the loan?
A:  Mr. Dickerson – yes.

Q:  Mayor Harvey asked if there was a reapplication process after 10/2010?
A:  Mr. Roark and Mr. Dickerson responded – No.  The Preliminary Engineering Report

(PER) is the application Art Powers has had for a long time.

Q:  Mr. Carter asked if anyone has looked into the Tobacco Commission funding?
A:  Mr. Roark stated that the County receives their yearly appropriation but there is another

pot of money possible matching money for the STAG grant.

A:  Mrs. Ferguson spoke regarding the inquiries on the Tobacco Commission funding.  We

have not ignored that avenue, but have not been encouraged.

Q:  Mr. Conner asked if the Virginia Department of Health dictates rates?
A:  Mr. Dickerson responded that they want to see that you have the ability to make the loan

payments.

A:  Mr. Roark said that to the Virginia Department of Health the Town is one customer to the

County and the Town has been given the pass through rate.

Q:  Mr. Conner asked if there was anything preventing the bid from being awarded in

February 2011?

A:  Mr. Roark responded that the County will handle the payback of any loans/grants, etc.

The rate with VDH is based on prevailing AA Market rate.  The rate will be set at the
closing.

Comment:  Mr. Conner said we need to act quickly.

Q:  Mr. Conner asked the board if they had approved for the County to proceed without Rural

Development funding.

A:  Mr. Roark – that is correct.

Comment:  Mr. Conner stated that if you wait on Rural Development you’ll lose the project

or it may cost more money.

Aileen Ferguson, County Administrator – We have all the money we need.  We are looking for
all the grant money we can.  If we continue looking at grant money, we will reduce the money
needed from the taxpayers.

Mr. Carter stated that we know the Tobacco Commission has money.

Aileen Ferguson, County Administrator – We are pursing the grant money from the Tobacco
commission but there are criteria you must meet.

4  Joint Meeting

Appomattox Town Council & Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
September 28, 2010

Mayor Harvey asked if anyone has contacted our delegate.
Mr. Conner said the State Senator, too.

Aileen Ferguson said both of which are good options.

Mr. Dickerson - To qualify for Rural Development grant money = The formula is MHI x 1.5 / 12
= $32.00 – 33.00 per month per user.

Mr. Roark reiterated that the County has the money to proceed.

Mr. Conner – We promised the people cleaner and cheaper water – In these economic times we
need to make this decision and move on.  It isn’t going to get any cheaper.

Mr. Carter – Can we make any alterations to the current plan?  Such as a spur to Route 613, the
Community Park or the IDA park?

Mr. Conrad – We’ve been talking about the 460 waterline for years – Not “fingers” of the line.
Let’s put the line down 460.

Mr. Craft – Why do you have to cross the Railroad tracks so many times?

Mr. Dickerson responded – for connections.

Mr. Dickerson stated that it’s a 12” line down 460 with 3/4” residential connections.

Mr. Conner asked again if the board says go – you’re ready?

Mr. Dickerson responded that we (H&P) have been proceeding to the bid process.  We haven’t
been authorized to advertise the bids.

Mr. Dickerson also stated that provided we follow all of Rural Development’s guidelines when
the money is available we could possibly seek reimbursement.

Mr. Conner said I just wanted to make sure we weren’t waiting on money that may or may not
come.

Aileen Ferguson, County Administrator told the board that they could take action tonight but it’s
my understanding that the project is moving forward.

The Board of Supervisors decided to take action at their meeting on Monday, October 4, 2010.

Mayor Harvey thanked everyone for coming together to discuss the matter.

5  Joint Meeting

Appomattox Town Council & Appomattox County Board of Supervisors
September 28, 2010

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council voted
to adjourn at 6:50 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

