1  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, September 28, 2010

The Appomattox Town Council held a workshop meeting on Tuesday, September 28, 2010 at
7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle,
N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Joyce B. Bennett.

Others:  Dennis Amos, Anderson & Associates; Bill and June Goodrich, Cliff Harvey, Hazel
Thomas, Ronnie Lankford, Stephanie James, Nina Beasley, Chad Millner, Barbara Shelton and
Carlton Duck, Stacey H. Wilkes, Town Treasurer, Frank Wright, Town Attorney, and Roxanne
Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed all guests and visitors.

Mayor Harvey introduced Dennis Amos, PE with Anderson & Associates who provided an
update on the Groundwater Study project that began in 2007.  In August 2007, Anderson &
Associates assisted the Town in submitting a planning grant application to the Virginia
Department of Health to do a Preliminary Engineering Report.  In December 2007, the Town
was informed it was awarded the grant.  In January 2008, the Town passed a resolution accepting
the grant.  In September 2008, the Town and Anderson and Associates entered into a contract to
perform the services outlined in the planning grant.  In October 2008, Anderson & Associates
began their portion of the project by completing the fracture trace analysis and locating sites for
additional resistivity testing.  The town began trying to acquire permission from property
owners.  This process went on for quite a while.  In August 2009, Anderson & Associates still
had not received the permission it needed.  Mr. Van Nieuwenhuise came to Blacksburg and met
with Anderson & Associates to look for ways to reduce the number of property owners.  In April
2010, Anderson and Associates did the image analysis on two (2) sites.  The other property is
owned by Keith Martin and he is unable to turn off the electric fencing to conduct the necessary
testing.  Anderson & Associates has collected enough data from the two properties.

The grant is for $25,000 and the Town has spent an additional $2,000 to date.  The proposed test
drilling well was located at the new Wal-Mart site.  Anderson & Associates has enough data to
wrap up the project or A&A could wait for the resistivity testing at the Martin site.  The grant
obligates the Town and Anderson & Associates to complete the Preliminary Engineering Report
(PER) and recommend a well site.  Anderson and Associates can meet those obligations.

Mr. Amos advised Council that there are no guarantees that the Wal-Mart site well if drilled
would not interfere with the production of other wells.

On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council
approved authorizing Anderson & Associates to complete the Preliminary Engineering Report in
order to move the project forward.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, September 28, 2010

On a motion by Councilmember Conner, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to authorize purchase of the Ford F250 ¾ Ton Extended Cab pickup truck for the Public
Works department from Apple Ford for $22,977.00.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Bennett, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted to
authorize purchase of the Chevrolet 1500 ½ Ton Regular Cab pickup truck for the Sewer
Department from Cardinal Chevrolet for $21,550.00.  All members present voting aye. Motion
carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council voted
to replace all the town property signs and add the language “Under Authority of the Town of
Appomattox, Virginia”.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Mr. Conner inquired if everyone who could be included in the boundary line adjustment had
been asked.  The Mayor indicated that the County was taking care of that.  Mr. Conner would let
the property owner who inquired know to talk with the county.

Committee Updates:
Finance – Mr. McDearmon reported that the Finance Committee would meet on September 30,
2010.
Fire & Safety – Ms. Bennett reported that the Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department gave a
presentation about a new truck for FY 2012.  The committee also discussed blighted property.
The committee is scheduled to meet again on October 7, 2010 at 4:30 p.m. after review of the
current ordinance and discuss how to proceed regarding the blight property.
Ordinance – Mr. Conner reported that the Landscaping and Sign Ordinances were brought back
to the Town today by the Zoning Administrator (Johnnie Roark).  The proposals are to aid in a
business friendly landscaping and sign ordinance.
Personnel – Mr. Mayberry reported that the committee met today, September 28, 2010.  There
was nothing to report.
Street & Property – Ms. Spiggle reported that the committee met on September 16, 2010 and will
be moving forward with replacing the roll up doors downstairs at the Town Office building, the
blacktop downstairs and at the Kiddie Park walking trail, the Handrail on Church Street, street
lights on Ferguson Street, the sidewalk on Confederate Blvd.  The committee will also be
looking for prices on an awning for the door at the Town Office entrance.  The committee has
received a request for a street light at the corner of Price Lane and Patricia Anne Lane and on
Pine Street.
Utility – Mr. Garrett reported that the Town has met with the County and the County will be
moving forward on the waterline project.

The Mayor extended thoughts and prayers to the Director of Tourism, who is recovering from
surgery.

There were no other reports from the Town Treasurer or Clerk of Council.

Council Concerns:  None

3  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, September 28, 2010

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council voted
to adjourn at 7:40 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

