1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 25, 2022

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, January 25, 2022 at 6:30
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present:  James J. Boyce, Sr., Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette, Nathan A.
Simpson, Mary Lou G. Spiggle, Aaron M. Tilton.

Others:  Anthony Revelle and Brian Casto, Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT),
Sherry Nourse, Times Virginian; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer;
Christy Torrence, Office Manager; and Roxanne W. Casto, Interim Town Manager/Clerk of
Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Scheduled Public Appearances – Mr. Anthony Revelle and Mr. Brian Casto of the Virginia
Department of Transportation (VDOT) appeared before Council to present an update on the Old
Courthouse Road Smart Scale project.  Mr. Revelle provided an overview of the lanes of traffic,
utilities including pole placement, streetlights, walking paths and maintenance plans of the path.

Town Council thanked Mr. Revelle and Mr. Casto for the update as they are very excited about
the project.

Discussion Items:
On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to amend the Town of
Appomattox Garbage Policy to allow businesses two (2) 96-gallon carts at no charge effective
April 1, 2022.
Vote:  Boyce – no, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes, Simpson – yes, Spiggle – yes, Tilton – yes.
Motion carried 5-1.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to approve American
Rescue Plant Act (ARPA) funding to replace the water line on Lilac Lane not to exceed a cost of
$10,500.00
Roll Call Vote:  Boyce – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes, Simpson – yes, Spiggle – yes, Tilton
– yes.  Motion carried 6-0.

Council Comment:
Puckette – Mrs. Puckette has been reviewing the guidance for the American Rescue Plan Act
(ARPA) funding and it looks like it will be best used for water and sewer projects.  Mr. Garrett
and Mrs. Puckette will review the list of projects presented by Mr. Elder.

Simpson – None

Garrett – Please continue to pray for Rev. Duck as his surgery has been rescheduled for February
9, 2022.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 25, 2022

Spiggle – Shared the same concern as Mr. Garrett.

Boyce – There is no need to rush the hiring process of the next Town Manager.

Tilton – None

Council Standing Committee Reports:
Finance and Planning Committee – none
Physical Development Committee – Is excited about the Smart Scale project on Old Courthouse
Road moving forward.
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Committee – Mr. Garrett and Mrs. Puckette will be meeting
soon.

Staff Reports:
Mr. Elder, Facilities Director provided information on the following:

➢  CHA Engineering is not recommending increasing capacity at the Water Reclamation
Facility (SBR plant) due to the new rules enacted by the Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ).  However, Mr. Elder would like to start an Inflow and Infiltration (I&I)
study on the other side of Town (North side).  The Trickling Filter Plant side of Town has
seen a reduction of flow by 75% since the I&I correction project.

➢  Church Street Sidewalk – VDOT answered all the Town’s questions and now has a few

questions for the Town.  The Town is preparing a response.

➢  USDA Sewer Project – I&I Project:  Mr. Garrett inquired about the punch list for the
project.  Mr. Elder responded that the Town has given the contractor two (2) weeks to
complete the punch list.

➢  The pump station at the Trickling Filter Plant is expected to be online by early spring.

Mrs. Ray, Town Treasurer presented the financial report as of December 31, 2021.  Mr. Boyce
asked how many utility customers on average are affected by the minimum bill amount without
using the minimum 2000 gallons of water and sewer.  Staff will research this question.

Mrs. Casto, Interim Town Manager/Clerk of Council provided an update on the following items:

➢  Board of Zoning Appeals

A vacancy remains on the Board of Zoning Appeals.  The vacancy can be filled by an
elected official (Mayor or Council Member) or a resident of the Town of Appomattox.
The Town Council can submit a name to Appomattox County and the Circuit Court of
Appomattox will appoint the individual.

➢  Town Economic Development Authority

The vacancy on the Town of Appomattox Economic Development Authority was
advertised in the Times Virginian newspaper and posted on the Town’s website.  If you
know of a Town or County resident with an interest in serving encourage them to call our
office for an application.  The deadline for applications is Tuesday, February 1, 2022 by

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 25, 2022

4:30 p.m. in hopes of having someone for the Council to appoint at the February 7, 2022
Regular Council meeting.

➢  Grants

The project management team of the Appomattox Downtown Revitalization Grant is
tomorrow, Wednesday, January 26, 2022 at 5:30 p.m. – here at the Town Hall.
David Mikula with Mikula I Harris will be presenting the preliminary finds of the
Branding and Marketing Study.  He will be presenting the final report at a future Council
meeting.
All façade contracts are fully executed.  Construction on the final two (2) properties
should begin in the next couple of months.
The Town has received the easements for the streetscaping portion of the project.  I will
be working with property owners to have those fully executed.

➢  Tree City USA

The Virginia Department of Forestry has approved the 2021 Tree City USA application
for 2021, at the state level.  Final approval by the Arbor Day Foundation is expected in
early February.

➢  Virginia Municipal League

The 2022 Virginia Municipal League Legislative Program has been provided to you
along with information for Local Government Day, which is planned for Thursday,
February 3, 2022 from noon – 7 p.m. in Richmond, Virginia.  If you would like to attend,
please let me know and I can send in your registration, etc.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Garrett, seconded by Puckette, Council voted to convene in Closed Session the
purpose of discussion of prospective candidates for employment, specifically being applicants
for the position of Town Manager, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia.

Vote:  Tilton – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Simpson – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

The meeting as reopened to the public.

Certification of Closed Session:
Council Member Spiggle made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

4  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
January 25, 2022

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Tilton and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:
Vote:  Tilton – yes, Boyce – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Simpson – yes, Puckette – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

Mayor Conner read the following statement:
The Town Council, as authorized by Virginia Code §2.2-3712(B), within fifteen (15) days of
said announcement, will be interviewing potential Town Manager candidate(s), in Closed
Session, at undisclosed time(s) and location(s).  Following such interview(s), the Council will
certify the same at its next regular schedule meeting.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted to
adjourn at 8:45 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

