1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 8, 2014

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, December 8, 2014
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Jr., C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N.H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Stephanie James, Times Virginian; Katrina Koerting, News and Advance;
Carlton Duck and Brian Moore, Alive Media TV; Mr. and Mrs. Paul Michael Raymond, Mr. and
Mrs. Gary Christie, Executive Director, Region 2000 Local Government Council; Mr. Ben
Bowman, Workforce Development Director, Workforce Investment Board; Stacey Wilkes, Town
Treasurer; C. William Gillespie, Jr., Town Manager; and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Paul Michael Raymond led the prayer and the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey welcomed everyone and wished them a Merry Christmas and Happy Holiday.

Scheduled Public Appearances
Gary Christie, Executive Director, Region 2000 Local Government Council gave a brief
overview of the items the Local Government Council is working on.

Ben Bowman, Workforce Development Director, Workforce Investment Board provided Council
with an annual report.  He also told council that they have launched a new website.

Consent Agenda –
On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda of December 8, 2014 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Unfinished Business –
None

New Business –
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to reappoint C. Lewis
McDearmon, Jr. and N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry to the Town of Appomattox Economic
Development Authority, terms expiring December 31, 2018.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to begin the process of
vacating an unopened paper alley between Lucy Street and Oakleigh Avenue.  All members
present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 8, 2014

Mr. Gillespie discussed with Council the list of Priorities and initiatives created for the Planning
Commission and Economic Development Authority.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to provide the Priority &
Initiative list to the Planning Commission and Economic Development Authority as discussed.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Mr. Gillespie gave an update on the ROSE project.  The bids are in for the garden plantings and
the signs.  He indicated that a board meeting is needed. He plans for the gardens and signs to be
installed in March 2015.

After much discussion, the Town Manager hiring process will consist of Mr. Garrett and Mrs.
Puckette reviewing all the applications and bringing back choices for full council to consider
interviewing.  Mr. Conner stated that he would like to get someone on board by January 1, 2015.
Interviews will be scheduled for next week.

Treasurer’s Update –
Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer provided an overview of the October 2014 finances for the
Town.

Town Manager Update –
None

Citizen Comments –
Rev. Paul Michael Raymond voiced a concern about the property at 222 Harrell Street in regards
to how to clean it up and make it more aesthetically pleasing.  Mr. Gillespie and Mr. Elder will
take a look at it.

Council Concerns –
Mayor Harvey advised Council that staff had met with Quarterdeck, LLC an event planning
company regarding the Sesquicentennial.  Their quote to provide services to the Town, its
businesses and citizens would be below the $50,000 fee for professional services.

Staff will meet with them again before bringing a proposal to council.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 6 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the
purpose of discussion or consideration of the investment of public funds where competition or
bargaining is involved, where, if made public initially, the financial interest of the government
unit would be adversely affected, specifically for discussion of a prospective new business, when
the business has made no previous announcement of their interest or intent, specifically being
prospective project A.

Roll Call Vote:  Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Mayberry – yes, Conner – yes,
Puckette – yes.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 8, 2014

Council Member Conner made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLOVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Roll Call Vote: Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Mayberry –yes, Conner –yes,
Puckette – yes.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 8:55 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

