1  Special Call Council Meeting
Tuesday, December 16, 2014

A Special Call Council Meeting was held on Tuesday, December 16, 2014 at 7:00 p.m. at the
Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Harvey,
presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H.
Mayberry, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the Special Call Council meeting to order.

On a motion by Council Member Conner, seconded by Council Member Garrett, Council voted
to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended, for the purpose of interviewing prospective candidates for the position of Town
Manager with the Town of Appomattox, specifically being prospective candidates A, B and C.

Vote:
Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Mayberry – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Conner made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLOVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Spiggle and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:
Garrett – yes, McDearmon – yes, Spiggle – yes, Mayberry – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette – yes.

As a result of the closed session, Council voted to extend an offer, contingent upon contract
negotiations to Candidate C for the position of Town Manager.
Roll Call Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Puckette – aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

2  Special Call Council Meeting
Tuesday, December 16, 2014

On a motion by Council Member Conner, seconded by Council Member McDearmon, Council
voted to adjourn at 8:40 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

