ref: reel_02_0260
date: 1951-08-20
content: A regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on August 20, 1951 with Mayor G. B. Buchanan presiding and the following members present: Chas. P. James, J. E. Jamerson, C. S. Jenkins, C. T. Moses, Jr. and E. C. Dempsey. Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read. By a duly carried motion the street committee was asked to make a recommendation on the advisability of purchasing the lot adjoining Almond's Store for the purpose of a public parking lot. The report to be made at the next regular meeting of the Council. On a motion by Chas. P. James, seconded by C. S. Jenkins and carried the Town Manager is authorized to purchase and have transferred to the Town a portion of land near the Appomattox Ball Park for the sum of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00). The purpose of this property is the probability of erecting an incinerator for the Town in the future. The water committee was duly requested to investigate the request of Mike Godsey for a better and different Sewer Connection for his residence. On a motion by C. T. Moses, Jr., seconded by C. S. Jenkins and carried the Town Manager was authorized to proceed with the possibility of erecting two traffic signals, one on Church Street at Lee-Grant Avenue and one on Church Street at Route 460 or possibly Route 131 East at Route 460. By a duly carried motion all regular and full time employees of the Town shall have a vacation period of one week with pay each year. If the time is worked they shall be paid extra for one week. All days taken for their convenience shall apply on the vacation time. A building permit was approved for the erection of a wood shed for Lawrence Moore. By a duly carried motion an ordinance was passed requiring the following specifications on individually constructed Incinerators. Incinerators shall be constructed large enough to reasonably confine all burnable materials, and kept in reasonable repair. They shall have a durable bottom that will drain out water high enough above ground that water will not run in. They shall have an opening large enough for the employees to enter to remove unburned materials. All incinerators shall be located in a position that the Town Truck can back to the entrance with reasonable difficulty. Unless the above requirements are reasonably complied with the Town will not be required to remove refuge from Incinerators. Effective after publication. On a motion adjourned. Signed G. B. Buchanan, Mayor Signed E. Carroll Smith, Clerk
chunk_id: 19744
record_id: 764
page_number: 1

