1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
July 26, 2022

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, July 26, 2022 at 6:30
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: Aaron M. Tilton, James J. Boyce, Sr., Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G.
Puckette, Nathan A. Simpson – via phone from Richardson, Texas – out of town for personal
reasons.

Absent:  Mary Lou G. Spiggle.

Others:  Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry McGhee, Town
Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

Discussion Items:
Council discussed amending the rate of a Residential Companion Water Meter for Irrigation
Service.  Council requested to have this item placed on the August 8, 2022 agenda.

Council discussed the edits prepared by Councilman Simpson to the logo.  Council requested to
have this item placed on the August 8, 2022 agenda.

Council discussed dates for a Council Retreat to be held on September 23, 2022 or September
30, 2022.
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to hold a Council Retreat
on Friday, September 23, 2022.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Council received an update from Mr. McGhee on the LED Streetlight Replacement project.
Council requested Mrs. Ray research how the project could be funded.  Council requested to
have this item placed on the August 8, 2022 agenda.

Council Standing Committee Reports:
None

Council Comment:
Mrs. Puckette stated her concern that the Town Office appears to need a dedicated file/storage
room.  Mr. Elder stated he received an estimate of $65,000 to create an additional room over the
lean-to extension on the parking lot side of the building.  An additional $12,000 would be needed
for cabinet reconfiguration in the main office.

Mr. McGhee is willing to investigate vendors for e-records.

On a motion by Mrs. Puckette, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to move forward with
obtaining bids for the build out.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
July 26, 2022

Mr. Simpson – none

Mr. Garrett – none

Mr. Tilton - none

Mr. Boyce inquired about the vulgar sign on Church Street.  Mr. McGhee reported on his
conversation with the Town Attorney and the sign/banner is protected under the Freedom of
Speech.  The town is unable to require the sign be removed.

Staff Reports:
Mr. Elder reported the Request for Proposals for the I&I Study on the SBR side of Town would
be advertised on Sunday or Monday (July 31 or August 1).  The study is appropriated in the
ARPA fund for $325,000.  The pump station at the TFP will be 100% complete soon.

The Church Street Waterline Replacement Project (Material Only) portion of the project has a
deadline of August 5, 2022 for 100% of the materials to be delivered to the Town.

Mrs. Ray, Town Treasurer presented the financial report as of June 30, 2022, citing all
information is currently unaudited.

Mr. McGhee, Town Manager updated the Town Council on the following items:

-  Participated in a demonstration of a video conferencing product.  The “Owl” could also

be used for council meetings.

-  Attended the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors meeting on July 18, 2022 to

answer any questions regarding the Town’s request for an easement in front of the library
to install a streetlight and the request to close a portion of Hunter Street near the
Appomattox Children’s Park.

At the Board of Supervisors meeting, he was asked to investigate the overgrown grass
and vegetation at Walmart on the access road.  He was also asked to seek a remedy to
cars turning right near the exit of Wendy’s.  It has become a dangerous area.

-  Downtown Revitalization Grant – Jeff Elder and Chad Hodges are working with Craig

Wilson to address the streetscape portion of the project.

-  Train Depot Roof Renovations – The contract is currently under review with the Town

Attorney.

(Mr. Simpson left the meeting)

Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Tilton, Council voted to convene in a Closed
Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose
of discussing the performance of a specific public employee, being Employees A.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
July 26, 2022

ROLL CALL VOTE:  Tilton – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes, Boyce – yes.  Absent –
Simpson and Spiggle.  Motion carried 4-0.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member Boyce made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

ROLL CALL VOTE:  Tilton – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes, Boyce – yes.  Absent –
Simpson and Spiggle.  Motion carried 4-0.

Statement from the Closed Session:  Mayor Conner reported that by unanimous consent, the
Appomattox Town Council accepts the transition of Mrs. Casto from Interim Town Manager
back to her full-time position of Town Clerk, effective August 1, 2022.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn at 8:10 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 4-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

