1  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
April 24, 2018

The Appomattox Town Council held a Council Workshop meeting on Tuesday, April 24, 2018 at
6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin Finch, Steven T. Conner
(arrived at 7:20 p.m.) and Claudia G. Puckette.

Members absent:  C. Lewis McDearmon

Others present:  Bif Johnson, Dennis Amos, Stacie Castro, Nathan Simpson, Jeff Elder, Kim
Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of
Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Mr. Rick Butler, State Forester presented the Town with the 6 years of Tree City USA material
from the Arbor Day Foundation.

Mayor Harvey read the following proclamation:

TOWN OF APPOMATTOX
ARBOR DAY PROCLAMATION

WHEREAS,

in 1872, J. Sterling Morton proposed to the Nebraska Board of Agriculture that a
special day be set aside for the planting of trees, and

WHEREAS,   this holiday, called Arbor Day, was first observed with the planting of more than

a million trees in Nebraska, and

WHEREAS,   Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and

WHEREAS,   trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and water, cut

heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperate, clean the air, produce life-
giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife, and

WHEREAS,   trees are a renewable resource giving us paper, wood for our homes, fuel for our

fire and countless other wood products, and

WHEREAS,   trees increase property values, enhance the economic vitality of business areas,

and beautify communities, and

WHEREAS,   trees, wherever they are planted, are a source of joy and spiritual renewal.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
April 24, 2018

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Paul Harvey, Mayor of the Town of Appomattox, do hereby recognize
the 27th day of April 2018 (the last Friday in April) as our Annual Arbor
Day celebration and I urge all citizens to celebrate Arbor Day and to
support efforts to protect our trees and woodlands, and

FURTHER,   I urge all citizens to plant trees to gladden the heart and promote the well-being

of this and future generations.

Dated this                                day of

Mayor

Utility Rate Study –

Bif Johnson, Dennis Amos, and Stacie Castro from Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. met with Council to
discuss the time frame of the Utility Rate Study.  They hope to wrap up the study within 90 days.
They were also seeking guidance and direction for several items.  The three (3) items the rate
will try to include are operations and maintenance expenses, debt service or projects, and
reserves.

Mayor Harvey inquired about the types of rate structures; flat vs. tiered, etc.  Mr. Johnson
explained that those scenarios could be incorporated into the next presentation with Council.  He
reminded Council this is a marathon, not a sprint.

Hurt & Proffitt will include a report with all the options of rates include use of reserve and
general fund transfer.  Water and sewer funds should be stand-alone enterprise funds.  The rates
need to include depreciation.  The rates need to include depreciation.  Council needs to have the
willingness to annualize rate increases yearly.  It will eliminate the anxiety of rate increases.

FY 2019 Budget - Finalization

Mr. Shanaberger discussed the proposed FY 2019 Budget and hopes that the rate study will
answer a lot of questions about future projects, as it pertains to the Capital Improvement Plan for
Water and Sewer.

Morton Lane – Sewer Line
Mr. Elder briefly discussed the need to address the current sewer line on Morton Lane. The
engineers estimate is $170,950.  Council gave consensus to fund the design in FY 2019 of
$13,000 and then budget for the construction in FY 2020.

Fire Department
Mr. Garrett stated that the Fire Department needs more funding, specifically for their operating
budget, trucks and air packs.  The AVFD receives approximately $100,000 from the Town and
County, pass through of Fire Program funds and about $30,000 from the Spout Spring Ruritan
Club for turnout gear and Walter Payne grant money.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
April 24, 2018

Mr. Garrett informed Council that the Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department needs more
money to operate.  They have outdated gear and air packs.  Council will consider an increase for
FY 20.

Staff Reports –

Mr. Elder – none

Mrs. Casto – none

Mrs. Ray provided the March 2018 Financial Report.  The same report will also be electronically
sent to Council members.

Mrs. Ray discussed the possibility of submitting changes to the Accounts Receivable policy to
Council for review.  She also explained how the Purchase Order program is aiding in better
control of line items in the budget for FY 2018.

Mrs. Earhart will be providing training and consultation in the middle of May.  Mrs. Earhart will
be providing assistance for the remaining items of the FY 2017 audit, GASB compliance and
software upgrades.

Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following items:

➢  The architectural firm toured the depot last week.
➢  The Kiddie Park restrooms are nearly complete.

Council Concerns:
Mr. Conner reminded Council that Amherst eliminated their Real Estate tax, Personal Property
tax and Business License tax and increased their Meals Tax and Cigarette Tax.

Mr. Garrett asked if the town is getting what it should in Cigarette Tax revenue?  Mr. Conner
said the Cigarettes are monitored by regulations and selling how many are on the shelves.

Mrs. Puckette inquired about the Key to the Town for Coach Smith.  Mrs. Casto advised she was
working on it.

Mr. Conner also inquired about merit raises for employees in the proposed budget.  After a
lengthy discussion Council voted on the following:
On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Ms. Finch, Council voted to approve a one-time bonus
of $10,000 each to Mr. Elder and Mrs. Casto for service beyond expectations.  All voting aye.
Motion carried.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
April 24, 2018

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 8:00 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

