ref: reel_02_0696
date: 1973-08-15
content: NOW, THEREFORE, William S. Slagle, Manager, Town of Appomattox, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk, are hereby authorized and directed in the name of said Town, to execute any required contract in order that employees of the Town of Appomattox may become entitled to benefits provided under the Virginia Supplemental Retirement Act. In execution of any contract which may be rendered, the seal of the said Town of Appomattox shall be affixed and attested by the Clerk and said officers of the Town of Appomattox are hereby authorized and directed to pay from time to time such sums as are due under said contract by the Town of Appomattox and its employees.

CERTIFICATE

I, Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk of the Council of the Town of Appomattox, certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the resolution passed at a lawfully organized meeting of the Council, Town of Appomattox, held in Appomattox, Virginia, 7:30 o'clock P.M. August 13, 1973.

Given under my hand and seal of the Town of Appomattox, Virginia, this 15th day of August 1973.

Motion carried.

Mr. Slagle was requested by Council to write to the Norfolk & Western Railroad to find out the possibility of obtaining the old Railroad Depot and the land it is situated on.

Mr. Hubbard reported that Cloverhill Manufacturing would like to purchase options on all the lots in the Promise Land Subdivision. Council decided to continue giving an option as each lot is purchased.

Mr. Webb made the motion to authorize Mr. Slagle to do whatever is necessary for the Fire Alarm. Mrs. Robinson seconded. Motion carried.

Mr. Holland reported we needed to submit our Planned Use Report for the fiscal year 73/74. Mr. Slagle reported that he filled out the report with preliminary figures for Council's consideration. Council advised Mr. Slagle that these figures and use categories were acceptable to them.

Mr. Slagle reported that Mr. W. C. (Dan) Daniels has introduced a new bill into Congress to extend the boundaries of the Park. Before the Board of Supervisors vote, they would like the input of the Appomattox Town Council. Conner made a motion to support the proposed bill and write a letter to the Board of Supervisors expressing our approval, seconded by Martin Webb. Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20157
record_id: 1177
page_number: 1

