ref: reel_02_0682
date: 1973-04-16
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on April 16, 1973 at 7:30 P.M. in the Council Room with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Martin L. Webb, T. E. Conner, Burke Guill, Mrs. G. H. Robinson, and Ivey Holland.

Those also present were Mrs. Harry Jarrells, Miss Mary Anne Wheeler, Mr. David Nash, and Mr. Jimmy Rogers, and Mr. Neely and Mr. Motley, representatives for Williamson and Co., Inc.

Mr. Hubbard as Vice-President of the Appomattox County Planning Commission reported on the meeting held by the Planning Commission on the petition for rezoning. The Planning Commission recommended that the request be denied, based on testimony presented at the Public Hearing and the results of a vote taken by letter ballots which were presented to the Council. Mr. Conner made the Motion that the Council accept the Planning Commission's recommendation and deny the request for rezoning and Mr. Webb seconded the motion. Motion carried.

Mr. Slagle reported that he had attended the Board of Supervisor's meeting and requested that they share in the cost of the monitor alert system, for the firemen. They elected not to take any action on the request. Slagle was requested by Council to obtain prices of the system.

Conner reported that the Board of Supervisors denied the request of Council to contribute $500 per year toward the operational and maintenance costs of the Ball Park. He has received prices from several companies for the bleachers. Conner made the motion to authorize Mr. Slagle to order the seats from J. H. Penco Co. in Roanoke at a cost of $1088.00. Guill seconded the motion. Revenue Sharing Funds will be used to purchase these seats. Motion carried.

Slagle reported that he and Mrs. Robinson from the Town met with representatives of the Highway Department and the Appomattox Garment Company regarding the problem with on-street parking along Route 460 by Garment Factory employees. Mr. Lawson explained that the Appomattox Garment Company had been unsuccessful in its efforts to locate adequate property to construct a parking lot for its employees but in view of the concern expressed by the Highway Department would intensify its efforts to locate such property.

Slagle reported he was approached by Mr. Tucker, Principal and Mr. McLean, Assistant Principal of Appomattox County High School to help them control student parking. He asked that the Council adopt a resolution to authorize 2 hour limited parking on Church Street. On a motion by Holland, seconded by Hubbard the following resolution was adopted.
chunk_id: 20143
record_id: 1163
page_number: 1

