ref: reel_03_0680
date: 1982-12-13
content: Regular meeting - December 1982
The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, December 13, 1982, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.
Those members present were: Ray Noble, S. E. Carter, R. L. Bass, R. C. Hubbard, and T. W. Lawson. Absent - W. H. Carson.
Others present: Hope Ferguson, Bryan Ferguson, Phillip Jamerson, Bernie Procter, Sallie Burke, Dick Burke, Vic Bosiger, Bill Hunter, Shirley Walton, Bill Sherrod, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.
The meeting was opened with a prayer.
On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council approved the Agenda with the following additions Old Business 1. Grease Trap Ordinance, New Business, 6. Resolution for Support of Rescue Squad, 7. Life Insurance, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.
On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the minutes of the November, 1982, with "one correction to the last paragraph on Page 2 in the vote - "Mr. Noble -nay" and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.
Mrs. Shirley Walton, spoke to Council on the progress with the proposed Mini-Mall. They are in the process of performing a consumer survey to determine what is needed in downtown Appomattox.
Mr. Phillip Jamerson, spoke to Council on their Company developing the Depot. He assured Council that what they are proposing to do will benefit the Town of Appomattox.
It was general consensus of Town Council that they will support this project for the proposed Mini-Mall with J. E. Jamerson & Sons, Inc. as the developer.
Vic Bosiger, briefed Council on Cablevision progress. He answered Council's question regarding programing.
Mr. Bill Hunter, Farmers National Bank, apologized to Council. He explained that they were holding VEPCO's bill because there is a question as to how many of the electric poles have cable attached. They are prepared to settle this account as soon as the bill is checked.
On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to approve the Insurance quotes from J. A. Burke & Co., Inc. for 1983, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried unanimously. (See copy in Council file - December 13, 1982)
Mr. Bernie Procter spoke to Council on the HUD Grant. A discussion of the loss of the grant and the possibility of re-applying in June, 1983, was held by Council. The local costs of designing the Sewer Facility at that time will be approximately $25,000.00 which is money the Town will have to expend one way or the other. This fee could become an eligible cost and therefore be reimbursed to us.
chunk_id: 20766
record_id: 1786
page_number: 1

