ref: reel_03_0713
date: 1980-02-11
content: Regular Meeting - February 11, 1980

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, February 11, 1980, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor R. C. Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were R. C. Hubbard, T.W. Lawson, R. L. Bass, S. E. Carter, and T. E. Conner. Absent-M. E. Gordon.

Also present were Patsy Butler, Grover Beasley, Jr., Rescue Squad Beck Hudson, Reporter, B. H. Mullins, Clerk, and W. R. Britton, Jr. Town Manager.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Agenda was approved on a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Carter, and all members voted yes.

The minutes of the last meeting were approved as read.

The January 1980 Financial Statement was presented to Council.

Mr. Britton reported on the trip to Chestertown, Md., Due to the weather conditions, the facility had some problems with odor. They treated with disinfectants and chlorine.

Mr. Britton reported that E.P.A. has a facility in Ada, Oklahoma, that Council can view if they wish and the cost will be borne by E.P.A. Campbell Soup Company has offered to take Council to the facility in Paris, Texas, if the trip is made to Oklahoma.

Mr. Britton was authorized by Council to obtain the costs of a feasibility study on the Overland Flow System and bring the figures back to Council.

Mr. Britton presented the Schedule of Sewer Rehabilitation drawn up by May & Associates, on the I. & I. The total cost would be approximately $127,000.00.

The Schedule was tabled until the next meeting because of a discrepancy in the total cost figure.

The agreement proposal by Virten, LTD. was presented to Council. Mr. Britton gave a brief synopsis of the agreement. The Agreement was tentatively approved with the following deletions and corrections: The time limit as set forth in the agreement could not be met at this time so Council requested this be deleted. Council also agreed to Virten, LTD's sum total figure of $71,000.00 as payment from Virten, L.T.D. for removing the I. & I. being introduced into our system by them.

Mayor Spiggle made Council aware of a tour of the Thomasville Plant being offered by Ms. Susan Bailey. Council wanted the Tour but preferred it be at night.

Council presented a resolution on the Rescue Squad for their approval. This resolution would support the passage of House Bill 334 to protect the volunteer squad members from liability resulting from emergency care given by them.
chunk_id: 20789
record_id: 1809
page_number: 1

