1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
February 22, 2022

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, February 22, 2022 at
6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present:  James J. Boyce, Sr., Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette, Mary Lou G.
Spiggle, Aaron M. Tilton.

Absent:  Nathan A. Simpson

Others:  Courtney Mendenhall, Times-Virginian; Susan Chapman, CPA and Hailey Fox, CPA,
Brown Edwards & Co; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Christy
Torrence, Office Manager; and Roxanne W. Casto, Interim Town Manager/Clerk of Council.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Scheduled Public Appearances – Susan Chapman, CPA, Director with Brown Edwards &
Company, LLP presented the FY 2021 Annual Audit for the Town of Appomattox.  She also
introduced Hailey Fox, CPA who was responsible for much of the field work for the Town audit.
Overall, the FY 2021 went well.  There are no outstanding issues.  This was the Town’s first year
for a single audit because the Town received over $750,000 in federal funding.  The cash
balances are back up due to the closing of the USDA grant/load for the sewer project.  The fund
balances are also still healthy.  There are 28 months of expenses in reserves and that is healthy.

Mrs. Chapman said there were no new comments in the report this year.  The management
responses will be in the final report.  New next year will be the standards for leases.  The amount
(number) of journal entries for year end are much less than prior years.  The Town has come a
long way since Brown Edwards started auditing the Town in 2010.  Water and Sewer funds are
finally paying for themselves.

The Appomattox Town Council thanked Mrs. Chapman and Ms. Fox for the report.

Discussion Items:
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to accept the FY 2021
Audit for the Town of Appomattox as presented by Brown Edwards and Company, LLP.
Boyce – aye, Garrett – aye, Puckette – aye, Spiggle – aye, Tilton – aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Council Comment:
None

Council Standing Committee Reports:
American Rescue Plan Act (ARPA) Committee –
Mrs. Puckette provided an updated list compiled by Mr. Elder and the committee (Garrett &
Puckette).

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
February 22, 2022

Staff Reports:
Mr. Elder, Facilities Director provided information on the following:

➢  USDA Sewer Project – I&I Project:  The punch list is in progress on the project.
➢  The department repaired a couple of water leaks and sewer backups.

Mrs. Ray, Town Treasurer presented the financial report as of January 31, 2022, also stating that
the 2022 Business License is due by March 1st and the FY 2023 Budget preparation are
underway.

Mrs. Casto, Interim Town Manager/Clerk of Council provided an update on the following items:
➢  There will be a joint public hearing on Tuesday, March 1, 2022 at 6:00 p.m. of the Town
Planning Commission and Town Council to hear citizen input on (2) zoning amendments
to the Appomattox Town Code.  Council was encouraged to bring any questions or
concerns to the meeting.

➢  The Town Council provided consensus to begin the budget work sessions at 5:45 p.m. on

the nights of Regular and Workshop meetings.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session, pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 3 of the Code of Virginia (1950), as amended, for the
purpose of discussion or consideration of the acquisition of real property for a public purpose, or
of the disposition of publicly held real property, where discussion in an open meeting would
adversely affect the bargaining position or negotiating strategy of the public body, specifically
property identified as Tax Map #64A5-13-9.

Vote:  Boyce – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes, Spiggle – yes, Tilton - yes.  Motion carried 5-
0.

The meeting was reopened to the public.

Certification of Closed Session:
Council Member Tilton made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
February 22, 2022

The motion was seconded by Council Member Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

Vote:  Boyce – yes, Garrett – yes, Puckette – yes, Spiggle – yes, Tilton - yes.  Motion carried 5-
0.

Mayor Conner read the following statement:
The Town Council, as authorized by Virginia Code §2.2-3712(B), within fifteen (15) days of
said announcement, will be interviewing potential Town Manager candidate(s), in Closed
Session, at undisclosed time(s) and location(s).  Following such interview(s), the Council will
certify the same at its next regular schedule meeting.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Puckette, Council voted
to adjourn at 8:10 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Richard C. Conner
Mayor

