REGULAR MEETING - February 12, 1996

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held
on Monday, February 12, 1996 with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: R. L. Bass, S. E. Carter, Marvin Mitchell,
S. E. Lawson, and Norman Mayberry. Absent - R. W. Mitchell

Others present: Dennis Gragg, Biff Johnson, Harl Dickerson,

John L. Wilson, Virginia Babcock, Audrey Ferguson, Audrey Wright,
Milton Chambers, Jim Amos, Grey Nash, Joe Coflin, Bruce Cowan,
William Phillips, Cindy Smith, Raymond Mullins, and Bobbie
Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to
approve the Agenda as presented and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

Mr. Bruce Cowan appeared before Town Council to request the Town
to support the GTE Rate Increase due to the impact on Technology
for Business and local governments. No action was taken.

Mr. Lawson, Chairman of the Street Committee, has met on several
requests and they recommend the following street lights:
1. Install light on Route 1009 at former George Stevens
residence
2. Install another light at the old Van Patterson
residence on Route 1009
3. Install a light at the intersection of Route 460,
Price Lane and Patricia Anne Lane

4. Deny the request for increased wattage on Atwood
Street wat: Caldwelli's Apartments

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council
voted to accept the recommendations of the Street Committee as
stated above, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Marvin Mitchell, Council
tabled the request from D. S. Nash Construction Company until
more information can be obtained and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried. ,

Mayor Spiggle presented a request from Wenco for Water and Sewesz
Connection. Also need to approve their Erosion and Sediment
Control Plan.

On a motoin by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted
to approve the Erosion and Sediment Control Plan and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

235

