The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on

Monday, April 12, 1993, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: S. E. Carter, W. H. Carson, R. L. Bass |
R. W. Mitchell, S. E. Lawson, and H. W. Conner.

Others present: Jesse M. Rosser, Arthur Wiggins, III,
Kim Bell, Frances Abbitt, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council
voted to approve the Agenda with the addition of Old Business:
Item 3, Street Committee, and New Business, Item 7. Wrong
Way Parking, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Jesse Rosser appeared before Council to address the problem
of Parking at the Post Office.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council
voted to request the Street Committee to study the parking
on Court Street in front of the Post Office and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council
voted to lease to Appomattox County the site off Route 604

at the Old Landfill Property for a Dumpster Site for 15 years
at a cost of $1.00 provided the "Hold Harmless Agreement" f
be signed, insurance coverage naming the Town be provided,
and a lease signed, and all those present voting aye.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Carson-aye Conner-aye Mitchell-aye
Lawson-aye Motion carried.

Council suggested that the Ordinance Committee be requested
to take a look at the Livestock problem in the Town and
review the ordinance on Livestock.

Mr. Mitchell reported that the Street Committee has met
and they would like to have "No Parking" on either side
of the Street in front of the Fitness Center.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr. Carter,
Council voted to request the Highway Department to put
"No Parking" signs in front of the Fitness Center on
Church Street and all those present voting aye. Motion
carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted
to allow horses in the Parade provided the group provides
adequate insurance coverage, consider limiting the number of
entries, and more than one person walking with the equestrian
entries and any other stipulations the Festival thinks is
necessary to protect the Town of Appomattox, and ail those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

Regular Meeting - April 12, 1993 \

