ref: reel_03_0054
date: 1975-08-11
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, August 11, 1975 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

Members present were R. C. Hubbard, M. J. House, Jr., R. C. Spiggle, T. E. Conner and Mrs. Earle Robinson.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

Mr. Danny Simpson and Addison Elder, Appomattox County Jaycees, met with Council to discuss the Ball Park and the Rodeo to be held on August 23-24. They formally requested permission on behalf of the 'Jaycees' to use the Ball Park for the Rodeo to be held August 23-24th. The bill for the lights blown at the Ball Park was also discussed. The Council granted permission for the use but specified certain terms and conditions to be met in renovating the Town Ballpark to its condition prior to the rodeos. The terms and conditions are as follows: 
1. 1000 lbs of 10-10-10 fertilizer per acre.
2. 150 lbs Kentucky 31 Fescue per acre.
3. A donation be made on the bulbs in lieu of the bill sent to the Appomattox County Jaycees in the amount of $323.41.
4. That a 2-week time limit be set for completing the grading and seeding weather permitting.

Mr. Charles Seay appeared before Council to complain about the parking on Atwood Street.

Mr. Spiggle made the motion to eliminate on-street parking on the Southside of Atwood Street from the corner of Lee Street to Charles Seay driveway, seconded by Mrs. Robinson. Motion carried.

Mr. Hubbard reported that the Council needed to adopt the new water rate structure as previously advertised. Mr. Hubbard made the motion to adopt the water rate structure as recommended by the Water Committee, seconded by Mr. Spiggle. Mr. Spiggle made the statement that the Committee had considered the poor and people on fixed incomes. Ayes 5 Nays 0 Motion carried.

Mr. Spiggle reported that 100 carp have been put into the lagoon and that a boat and motor have been purchased in order to more effectively deal with that lagoon problems.

Council discussed the 'Water Quality Management Plan.' On a motion by Mr. Spiggle seconded by Mr. House the following resolution was adopted.

See attached copy.
chunk_id: 20265
record_id: 1285
page_number: 1

