1  Regular Council Meeting

Monday, February 8, 2010

The Appomattox Town Council held a regular council meeting on Monday, February 8, 2010 at
6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Bryan J. Baine, N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, John T.
“Plicky” Williams, Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.  Absent:  Karl E. Carter.

Others:  Chad Millner, Lary Lou Spiggle, Cliff Harvey, Bill and June Goodrich, Stephanie
James, Carlton Duck, Frank Wright, James Stringfield, Bart S. Van Nieuwenhuise, Town
Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey opened the meeting for Closed Sessions.

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Councilmember Williams,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of Virginia,
1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion of the resignation of a specific public employee,
specifically being Employee A and §2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended,
for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel employed or retained by a public body
regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of legal advice by such counsel, such
specific legal matters being a potential claim from Fielder’s Choice Enterprises, Inc. for repair
work at the Appomattox Reclamation Facility for Structural Modifications.

Vote:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Jamerson-Scruggs –
aye.  Carter – absent.

Now, therefore be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to the best
of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted from open
meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which this
certificate resolution applies, and (2) Only such public matters as were identified in the motion
convening the closed meeting were head, discussed, or considered by this council.

Vote:  Baine – aye, Mayberry – aye, McDearmon – aye, Williams – aye, Jamerson-Scruggs –
aye.  Carter – absent.

Mayor Harvey called the regular meeting to order at 7:50 p.m. and welcomed the guests.

Rev. Carlton Duck gave the invocation.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Williams, Council
voted to adopt the consent agenda of February 8, 2010 as presented.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried.

Public Comments - none

2  Regular Council Meeting

Monday, February 8, 2010

Mayor’s Comments –
Mayor Harvey gave an update on the Museum of the Confederacy.  Their goal remains to be
complete in 2010.

There was no action as a result of the Closed Sessions.

Unfinished Business –
None

New Business –
None

Appointments to Board, Commissions and Committees -
None

Pending Matters -
None

Council Concerns -
Council thanked the Public Works Crews for their hard work and dedication during the recent
snow storm.

On a motion by Councilmember Jamerson-Scruggs, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon,
Council voted to adjourn at 7:55 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

