Recessed and Reconvened Meeting - March 23, 1992 —_—

The recessed and reconvened meeting of the Appomattox Town
Council was held on Monday, March 23, 1992, at 5:00 P.M.
with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those present were: H. W. Conner, R. L. Bass, W. H. Carson,
S. e. Carter, R. C. Hubbard, and Marvin H. Mitchell.

Others present: Steve Lawson, Bernard C. Proctor, and Bobbie
H. Mullins, Clerk.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted
to accept the recommendation of the Street Committee and request
Virginia Power to install five new street lights in the following
areas, Lee-Grant Avenue, Lombardy Apartment, Dogwood Avenue, and
Morris Avenue.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Conner-aye Carson-aye Hubbard-aye
Mitchell-aye Motion carried.

A lengthy discussion was held on the changes in the plans for the
Depot renovations.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. H. W. Conner, Council

voted to request bids on the depot renovations with the following | i

changes, take out the heat pump, put in four electric heaters,
ceiling fans, and take out the wall between the two front offices.

Bass-aye Carter-aye Carson-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye
Mitchell-aye Motion carried.

It was also requested that the bids be advertised for locally.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seonded by Mr. Carson, Council voted

to accept the bid from Saunders Construction Company for Oakleigh

Avenue/Oak Lane water line extension, Evergreen Avenue Interceptor
sewerline, Community Center Waterline extension, and Well No. 41,

Community Center Well connection to include a chlorination system

and an Aqua-Mag feed system with a building at the contract price

of $316,277.00

Bass-aye Carter-aye Carson-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye
Mitchell-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted
that in accordance with Section 2.1-344 of the Town Code, the Town
Council go into Executive Session to discuss possible litigation
and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council reconvened

into regular session, and all those voting aye. Motion carried. | |
i

There being no further business, the meeting adjourned.

. 2 MAYOR
Ronald C. aagyle

CLERK

