ref: reel_03_0865
date: 1984-06-11
content: Regular meeting - June 11, 1984

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, June 11, 1984, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, R. L. Bass, Ray Nobbe, H. W. Conner, and S. E. Carter.

Others present were: W. R. Britton, Jr., Frances Abbitt, Bookie Johnson, and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Nobbe, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the Agenda with Item 4, New Business, Two Houses on Linden Street, and 5, Executive Session, Personnel; and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Nobbe, Council approved the Minutes of the May 14, 1984 meeting as submitted and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to table Item 1, Financial Statement until the July meeting, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Nobbe, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to table Item 2, Old Business, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Bookie Johnson, Manager of the Town Ball Park, appeared before Council to report on the Ball Park.

Mr. Britton reported that the Health Department has approved several sites for wells on the property we just purchased from Mrs. Stanley.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to advertise the Tax Rate for 1984, in accordance with Sec. 58-785.2 of the State Code. See attached copy.

Carter-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Webb-aye Nobbe-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to grant Mr. Nobbe's request to connect a trailer to the Town's water and sewer system and in accordance with the requirements as set forth in his letter dated June 5, 1984.

Carter-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Webb-aye Nobbe-abstains Motion carried.

It was general consensus of the Town Council that Mrs. Opal Paulette be allowed to assume the existing lease on Rooms 3 & 4 of the Depot at the requirements as so allowed to Mrs. Virginia Hancock.
chunk_id: 20881
record_id: 1901
page_number: 1

