Nenttoeremrn eee err ee

379

Page 2 of '3 #4
Council Minutes - September 11, 2000

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to
table Item 2, New Business, Region 2000 Resolution, until the September
workshop meeting, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried..

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to
table the Chamber of Commerce request until the workshop meeting on
September 26" and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mrs. Bennett, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted
to approve the Mayor’s issuance of an Amusement Permit for the Chamber

of Commerce Third Friday on September 22, 2000, and all those present
voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to
table Item 2, Unfinished Business, Appointment of Council member to
Planning Commission until the workshop meeting and all those present
voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council approved
the granting of a special exception to Jerry Childress to operate a

Used Car Dealership in an M-1 Zone, and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mrs. Bennett, Council voted to
table Item 5, Unfinished Business, Amendment 1, until the September 26
workshop meeting and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to
go into Closed Session for the purpose of consultation with its legal
counsel regarding specific legal matters requiring the provision of
legal advice by such counsel, pursuant to Section 2.1-344 A 7 of the
Code or Virginia as amended.

Now, Therefore, Be It Resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby
certifies that to the best of each members knowledge that consultation
‘with tegal- counsel was~the-only ttem discusséd in the €losed Session. ~

Vote:

Lawson-aye Mayberry-aye McDearmon-aye
Carson-aye Bennett-aye

Nays: None
Absent: None

Motion carried.
