1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 23, 2021

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, March 23, 2021 at 6:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Vice-Mayor Garrett, presiding.

Town Council present:  Aaron Tilton, Nathan A. Simpson, Timothy W. Garrett, James J. Boyce,
Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle and Claudia G. Puckette (phone).

Others present:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Alan Briceland, Laura Briceland, Crissy
Sampier, Matthew Sampier, Charles Clusman, Talia Clusman, Noel Henderson, Katharine
Bloodworth, Bobbie Jean Mullins, Jeffrey Westbrook, Times Virginian Newspaper; Christy
Torrence, Office Manager; Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager;
Kim Ray, Treasurer; and Roxanne Casto, Clerk

The meeting was also broadcast LIVE on the Town of Appomattox Facebook page and public
phone participation through FreeConferenceCall.com was available.

Vice-Mayor Garrett called to order the Council Workshop meeting.

Presentations of Requests for Community Agency funding for FY 2022:
1.  Experience Appomattox – Don Jones appeared on behalf of the Appomattox Tourism
Committee requesting funding for Experience Appomattox for FY 2022 in the amount of $8,000.

2.  Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce – John Redding appeared to request funding in
the amount of $3,000 for FY 2022.

3.  Appomattox Railroad Festival – Noel Henderson appeared to request funding for FY 2022 in
the amount of $10,000 plus additional funding if the Town sees appropriate since the Railroad
Festival was not held in 2020.  The committee stressed a real need for volunteers.

The Appomattox Town Council thanked each organization for their request.

Consideration of Write-Offs:
There was a lengthy discussion of the miscellaneous accounts receivable for past due meals tax.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to write off the 2015
Personal Property taxes - $4,226.76; 2000 Real Estate taxes - $736.55 and 2017 Water and
Sewer Invoices - $6,757.05 which have exceeded the statute of limitations for collections.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

FY 2022 Budget Discussions:
The handout remains the same as the last budget meeting.  There are no changes to the Capital
Improvement Plan.  Located in the large packet (handout) includes $650,000 for the Church
Street waterline replacement project funding by the Department of Housing and Community
Development and $10,000 for the Central Virginia Planning District Commission to perform
grant services for the project.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 23, 2021

Agenda items 4 & 5 were moved to Council Comments.

Mr. Simpson requested the above-mentioned items:
Food Trucks – Picnic Tables:
It was the consensus of Council to add to the agenda on April 12, 2021, language to allow 6
picnic tables to the ordinance if the food truck owner also owns the same property.

Out of Town Water Rates:
Mr. Simpson requested the Utility Director (Elder) to speak with Hurt and Proffitt to start
determining the appropriate out of town water rates before the next workshop meeting.  Mr.
Shanaberger advised that the rate study review and breakeven analysis will be ready in
approximately 2 weeks.  The consensus of Council was to add this item to the scope of services
for Hurt & Proffitt.

Mrs. Puckette – none

Ms. Spiggle – none

Mr. T. Garrett – none

Mr. Tilton – none

Mr. Boyce – none

Council Standing Committee Reports:
The Physical Development Committee reported it met earlier today to approve a request for a
utility payment plan for a customer.

Staff Reports:
Mrs. Kim Ray, Treasurer provided the Treasurer’s Report for revenues and expenditures though
February 2021.

Mr. Shanaberger provided an update on the following items:

➢  Town Charter – Governor Northam signed the Town’s request for a Charter change.  A

step-by-step timeline was provided to Council.

➢  At this moment, the Town is expected to receive approximately 1.6 million in funding
from the American Rescue Plan.  The first payment of funding will be specifically for
COVID related items.  The second payment can be used for infrastructure improvements.

➢  Staff participated in a conference call with Davenport.  They will be attending the April

12th meeting to meet Council and review the scope of services.

➢  Rob Wilson, USDA had a few more questions regarding the Church Street Waterline

application.

➢  Hurt & Proffitt will be preparing the rate study and breakeven analysis.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 23, 2021

Mr. Boyce inquired if any progress had been made to get a joint meeting with the Appomattox
County Board of Supervisors set up?

Mr. Shanaberger responded that would be a question for the Mayor.

Mr. Simpson responded that the County has received the Town’s letter.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Boyce, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adjourn at 7:30 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Timothy W. Garrett, Vice-Mayor

