1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 8, 2021

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, March 8, 2021 at
7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Richard Conner, presiding.

Council members present – Aaron Tilton, Nathan A. Simpson, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette (phone) and James J. Boyce.

Others present – Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Michelle Murch, Times Virginian Newspaper;
Robin Snyder, Superintendent, National Park Service; Alan and Laura Briceland, Talia Clusman,
Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Kim Ray, Treasurer; and
Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

The meeting was also broadcast Live on the Town of Appomattox Facebook page and public
phone participation through FreeConferenceCall.com was available.

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

Public Hearing
Mayor Conner opened the public hearing and stated the following purpose for the public hearing:
To receive public comments concerning the following:

1.  Amendment to the FY 2021 Budget for the Town of Appomattox - In accordance with

§15.2-2506 Code of Virginia, the following is a brief synopsis of the budget amendment by
the Town of Appomattox for FY 2021:

Water Fund Expenditures Amendments
Sewer Fund Expenditures Amendments
Total Expenditures Amendments

Water Fund Revenue Amendments
Sewer Fund Revenue Amendments
Total Revenue Amendments

1,450.29
7,055,433.57
7,056,883.86

 1,450.29
7,055,433.57
7,056,883.86

Documentation is available at the Town Office on Linden Street from 8:30 a.m. until 4:30 p.m.,
Monday through Friday.  If there are any questions, please contact Gary Shanaberger, Town
Manager at 434-352-8268.

Staff Comments:  Mrs. Ray, Town Treasurer explained the purpose of the budget amendments.

There were no public comments.

Mayor Conner closed the public hearing.

Rev. Carlton Duck, Pastor of the Gethsemane Baptist Church led the prayer and the Pledge of
Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 8, 2021

Mayor’s Comments:
None

Scheduled Public Appearances:
Robin Snyder, Superintendent, National Park Service appeared before Council to provide an
update on the recent concerns of the wastewater problems at the National Park Service.  The
National Park Service has provided full funding to repair the sewer line.  The construction is
expected to be complete in November 2021.  Robin Snyder thanked Jeff Elder, Facilities
Director; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager and the Town Council for their patience with the
National Park Service.

Adoption of the Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to approve the consent
agenda for March 8, 2021 as presented.  All members voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to adopt An
Appropriations Resolution of the Appomattox Town Council Adopting an Amendment to the
Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Budget for the Town of Appomattox, Virginia:

AN APPROPRIATIONS RESOLUTION OF THE APPOMATTOX TOWN COUNCIL
ADOPTING AN AMENDMENT TO THE FISCAL YEAR 2020-2021 BUDGET FOR THE
TOWN OF APPOMATTOX, VA.

SECTION I:
WHEREAS, that the Appomattox Town Council may amend the Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Town
Budget from time to time pursuant to Section 15.2-2507, Code of Virginia; and,

SECTION II:
WHEREAS, the proposed amendment for the Fiscal Year 2020-2021 Budget was published on
February 24, 2021 in the Times-Virginian, Appomattox, Virginia, pursuant to Section 15.2-2507,
Code of Virginia, and public hearing was subsequently held on the proposed budget on Monday,
March 8, 2021;

SECTION III:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council meeting in a
Regular Council Meeting on March 8, 2021, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby
approve the following Amendment to the Water Fund Expenditures for Fiscal Year 2020-2021;

WATER FUND; EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY:
Water Department – DHCD Utility Grant - Water
TOTAL WATER EXPENDITURES

1,450.29
1,450.29

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 8, 2021

SECTION IV:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby approve the
following Amendment to the Water Fund Revenue estimates for Fiscal Year 2020-2021;

WATER FUND; REVENUES BY CATEGORY:
DHCD Utility Grant – Water
TOTAL WATER REVENUES

1,450.29
1,450.29

SECTION V:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby approve the
following Amendment to the Sewer Fund Expenditures for Fiscal Year 2020-2021;

SEWER FUND; EXPENDITURES BY CATEGORY:
Sewer Department
TOTAL SEWER EXPENDITURES

7,055,433.57
7,055,433.57

SECTION VI:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Appomattox Town Council does hereby approve the
following Amendment to the Sewer Fund Revenue estimates for the Fiscal Year 2020-2021;

SEWER FUND; REVENUES BY CATEGORY:
USDA Proceeds
DHCD Utility Grant – Sewer
TOTAL SEWER REVENUES

7,052,813.67
2,619.90
7,055,433.57

SECTION VII:
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, by the Town Council of Appomattox, Virginia that the
Amendments to the Fiscal Year Budget for 2020-2021 is hereby adopted, effective March 8,
2021 and the monies necessary to fund it are hereby appropriated and shall be certified by the
Clerk of Council and maintained as an archive document with the official minutes of the Town
Council of Appomattox, Virginia.

Adopted this           day of March, 2021.

Attest:

Roxanne W. Casto, Town Clerk

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

All members voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Garrett, Council voted to accept the Request for
Proposal from Davenport & Company for the General Fund Financial Review and Capital
Funding Strategies.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 8, 2021

Council Standing Committee Reports:
The Finance & Planning and Physical Development Committees met today to begin working on
the FY 2022 Budget for the Town of Appomattox.

Citizens Comment Period:
Talia Clusman, the Babcock House spoke in favor of Iceland’s, an industry peer being allowed to
have the requested six (6) picnic tables.  Stating she believes a business owner should be able to
determine what is safe and appropriate for their guests.  I believe their success and growth can
not only benefit the Town through revenue but offering a much-needed variety to our business
landscape, not to mention their own personal success.  I hope to see them grow this season and,
in the years to come, and I hope you will wisely consider their request.

Alan Briceland – My wife, Laura and I own Iceland’s.  As you know last year was our first
season and I think it went really good.  We rented space from the Wilbun’s last year.  In October
2020, we purchased a lot from Dr. Smith on Old Courthouse Road.  It is approximately 2.5 acres.
In the Town you are only allowed 2 picnic tables per food truck/trailer.  We have requested a
total of 6.  Our parking lot is approximately 150’ x 150’ which gives more than ample space for
tables, in the grass.  I know this was brought up as a safety issue.  Last year at the Wilbun’s
parking lot we had kids in the parking lot with traffic, so in our opinion it is safer for them to be
behind the picnic tables out of traffic.  If children are sitting down, it is much easier to control
them than if they are running around.  Our plan is to build, but we are the epitome of small
business.  It is just my wife and I, but it is going to take some time.  There are advantages to
brick-and-mortar businesses and there are advantages to our type of business.  We have had a lot
of people, like the Babcock House reach out to us, other food trucks, 11-12,000 Facebook views
to their post and overwhelming support.  The other concern I recall is what are other food trucks
in neighboring communities doing?  We have become friends and acquaintances with a lot of
them.  To our knowledge there is only one other food truck that owns their own lot and they have
a ton of tables.  I do not believe Lynchburg or Bedford have a table allowance for people.  To my
knowledge Appomattox is the only locality like this.  Is there a date when a decision is going to
be made because we are planning to open on Friday, March 12, 2021?

Mr. Shanaberger responded to Council that he has had no chance to look into this.

Mr. Tilton – What is the process to make this happen?

Mr. Shanaberger – I can do research on this, but I will have to put what I think is more important
off to the side.  I don’t want to hold anyone up - so 2 weeks to a month to do respectable
research.

Mr. Briceland – Not to step on any toes here but we approached you (Gary) in October when we
purchased the property.  Knowing this was going to take some time and here we are – ready to
open – and this still isn’t resolved.  I know government moves slower and commercial stuff is
new to us.

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 8, 2021

Mr. Tilton – Is this a code requirement change – is a public hearing necessary?  Can we take
action today if we wanted to?  What is the process?

Mr. Shanaberger – You would want this in writing so it would have to be presented, the language
and you would definitely want the attorney to review it.  There is process to it.

Mrs. Briceland – Can we just get an exception?  We have only been asking for six (6) months.
We are investing in the Town and we are asking for support for 6 picnic tables.  More jobs, more
food taxes, more revenue and honestly, we are just looking for that support back.  Honestly, we
are the only ones who own our property nearly 2.25 acres.  We’ve looked at the safety.  We are
completely insured.  Iceland’s is insured.

Mr. Tilton – They made the point that we are the only locality in the area that has a limit – would
it be viable to remove the restriction to allow them to move forward and then we (Council) can
revisit after we have had some time to put together some language?  Just strike that line from the
code?

Mr. Simpson – I think anything is possible but I think it is important to do your homework.

Mr. Simpson – Thank you for coming to our meeting.  Like I said at our last meeting, we need
input from our businesses because it is a fork in the road.  If we move one direction or the other,
it is difficult to come back from that.  I think we just need some time to evaluate what direction
the community wants to go forward with and to hear from more people and we don’t want to
inhibit entrepreneurship.  I personally love your story.  I want to see you succeed.  But I don’t
think it would be appropriate for us to act on anything tonight.  I think we need to give Gary an
opportunity to explore what other localities are doing, just learn more about the situation.  I am
attempting to do research and I encourage everyone to do the same and then meet back on this
topic to create a conclusion.

Mrs. Briceland – I feel like we have reached a majority of the people in the Appomattox
Community through social media and received nothing but positive comments.

Talia Clusman – My question would be – if they came to the Town back in October, why has it
taken so long?  You say it takes time, but you’ve had a lot of time.

Mayor Conner – Did you address us in October about your request?

Mr. Briceland – In October when we purchased the property we walked over here (Town Office)
and met with Mr. Shanaberger and asked what do we need to do to get an exception, we own our
property and have ample room.

Mrs. Briceland – If I recall, while we were meeting with Gary, you (Mayor) came in.

Mr. Simpson – I appreciate all of you being here, what is the procedure for back-and-forth
discussion format for this meeting?  Is it to hear from businesses and citizens and then

6  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
March 8, 2021

deliberate?  I don’t know the appropriateness of back-and-forth dialogue at a meeting.  I have
been seen it happen before.

Mr. Briceland – Frustration over the length of time.

Mayor Conner – This issue was brought to Council recently.  I understand your concern on that,
we could possibly make a decision by the second Monday meeting in April.  We are sorry for the
delay and appreciate your comments for tonight.  We will try to get this resolved by the second
Monday in April.

Town Manager Updates –
Mr. Shanaberger – The USDA application for the Church Street Waterline Replacement project
is still in process.  The Town Charter amendment was passed by the Virginia Senate and House
of Delegates.  It is awaiting a signature by the Governor of Virginia.  The Request for Proposals
for Design of Branding and Marketing Materials should be ready for advertising in the next 10
days.  Lastly, the sewer work on Morton Lane should be complete within the next week or two.

Council Comments –

Mrs. Puckette – none

Mr. Tilton – Thanked Robin Snyder, Jeff Elder and Gary Shanaberger for the progress report on
the sewer project at the National Park Service.  He also thanked the Briceland’s and the Babcock
House for requesting to expand the seating/picnic tables for mobile food establishments.

Mr. Simpson – none

Ms. Spiggle – none

Mr. Boyce – read Proverbs 29:18 – Challenges other Council members and himself to find the
vision.

Mr. Garrett – agreed with Mr. Boyce on moving forward.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Simpson, Council voted to adjourn the meeting.
All members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

