1  Public Hearing

Monday, July 12, 2010

The Appomattox Town Council held a joint public hearing with the Appomattox County
Planning Commission on Monday, July 12, 2010 at 6:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal
Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Council Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H. “Jimmy”
Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Joyce B. Bennett.  Absent:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.

Planning Commission Members present:  George “Spud” Almond, Chairman; Barry Morris,
Kevin O’Brien, Calvin Tanner, Susan Hudson.

Others:  Johnnie Roark, County Planner; Nolan Connelly, News & Advance; Jim Sefter, Mark &
Sarah Marston, Barbara Shelton, Fay Franklin, Stacey H. Wilkes, Town Treasurer, Bart S. Van
Nieuwenhuise, Town Manager and Roxanne Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the public hearing to order.

Chairman Almond called the Planning Commission to order.

Mr. Almond stated the purpose of the public hearing:

CUP08004 – Mark A. Marston
Applicant desires to amend the existing conditional use permit to add an additional duplex on
property identified as TM#64A5(15)BKC28 and further identified as 295/297 Lee Grant Avenue,
Appomattox, Virginia.  The property is zoned R-2, Residential Zoning District.  The original
conditional use permit was approved by the Appomattox Town Council on August 11, 2008
property on Lee Grant Avenue for a Multi-family duplex.

Mr. Marston spoke in favor of the application and was available to answer any questions.

Mr. Jim Sefter – 984 Pembroke Court, Myrtle Beach, SC
Spoke in regards to the application indicating that the building(s) were 42 feet from the property
line.  He spoke to dispute that claim.  Mr. Sefter said the Town of Appomattox deeded the 30
feet of right of way (Lots 27 & 61) to him in exchange for a sewer easement on the lower side of
his property near the creek.

There were no other public comments.

The joint public hearing was considered closed and the Planning Commission was to reconvene
at the CVCC meeting room.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Ms. Bennett, Council voted to close the public
hearing at 6:35 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

