BQ.

REGULAR MEETING =- OCTOBER 2, 1995

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held
_ on Monday, October 2, 1995, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle
presiding.

Those members present: R. L. Bass, W. H. Carson, S. E. Carter,
R. W. Mitchell, and S. E. Lawson.

Others present: Marvin Mitchell, Barbara Williams, Clerk,
Cindy Smith, and Bobbie Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted
to approve the Agenda with two additions to Old Business:

5. Injunction Status, 6. Consideration of Resolution - GTE
Increase, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council

voted to appoint Marvin H. Mitchell, to fill the unexpired term of
Mr. H. W. Conner, who moved out of Town, and all those present
voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council
approved the sewer connection for Courtland Manufacturing
Company and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. R. Mitchell, Council
voted to approve the water and sewer connection for Jesse
_ Morton Rosser on Oakleigh Avenue and all those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted
to designate Fall Clean Up - October 23 thru 27, October 30
thru November 3, 1995, Loose Leaf Collection beginning ©
November 1 thru December 31, 1995, and bagged leaves beginning
November 1 thru January 31, 1996, and all those present voting
aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted
to go on record as opposing the proposed GTE Rate Increase,

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council recognizes the
fiscal needs of its citizens; and»

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council acknowledges a
responsibility to the citizens of the Town of Appomattox to
| help control costs imposed upon them; and

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council having reviewed the
proposed rate increase by GTE South, feels this rate increase
would place undue hardship on some of its citizens;

|
| WHEREAS, the Citizens have the right to be heard, it is

aoe incumbent upon the State Corporation Commisison to hold public
hearings in the area affected to make them accessible to all
citizens;

NOW, THEREFORE, the Appomattox Town Council do hereby opposed
the proposed rate increase as documented by case number PUC950019

