ref: reel_03_0644
date: 1981-12-14
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on December 14, 1981, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. L. Bass, W. H. Carson, T. E. Conner, R. C. Hubbard, Ray Noble, and T. W. Lawson.

Others present were: J. F. Mackenzie, J. D. Carnefix, G. B. Foltz, Peter R. Hale, F. T. Seargent, Patricia Evans, Mrs. Ethel Evans, Thomas Cantieri, H. T. Nash, Sr., Superintendent of Public Works, Floyd Williams, Garland Ranson, Bill Sherrod, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council adopted the Agenda with the following additions: Old Business- 11. Closing of Grove Street and Mackenzie Avenue; New Business- 5. Proposed Zoning of the Countryside Drive as R-1, 6. Adoption of Ordinances - 15.1491B, Code of Virginia, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

The minutes of the November 9, 1981 meeting were approved by Town Council on a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, and all members voted aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Joel Carnefix, member, Appomattox Courthouse Presbyterian Church, spoke to Council regarding the feeling as a whole of the congregation that they could not have used all the water as shown by the meter reading and they requested an adjustment on the water bill. Their request will be taken into consideration later on the agenda.

Mr. J. F. MacKenzie, addressed Council concerning the closing of the streets in Morris Heights Subdivision. In essence, he objected to the doing away with the Mackenzie Avenue name. He requested Council to table action on the closing of the street at this time.

Mr. Cantieri, Attorney, representing Harry G. Lawson, who is requesting the closing of the streets in question, spoke to Council. The reason for the request to close the streets stems from Federal Regulations concerning the use of the land. He explained that one section of land is designated as a "Playground". It had previously been suggested that the "Playground" be named "Mackenzie Park" to honor Mrs. Gertrude Mackenzie Morris.

Mr. Garland Ranson, appeared before Council to ask some pertinent questions regarding a lot in Morris Heights Subdivision for which he has been contracted to build a house on.

Council discussed the problems concerning this lot but took no action at this time.

Mr. F. T. Seargent, Surveyor, appeared before Council to request permission to mark the elevations on all 56 monuments instead of at the four points as previously requested by Council in the bid for surveying the Town’s boundaries at a not-to-exceed figure of $1800.00.
chunk_id: 20733
record_id: 1753
page_number: 1

