ref: reel_03_0647
date: 1981-12-29
content: Recessed and Reconvened Meeting - December 29, 1981

The recessed and reconvened meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on December 29, 1981, at 5:00 P.M., with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: T. E. Conner, Ray Noble, R. L. Bass, R. C. Hubbard, and W. H. Carson. Mr. W. L. Lawson arrived late.

Also present were: E. H. Mullins, Clerk and Judy Volturo.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to adopt the amendment and re-enactment of the Business License fees as previously advertised, Section 13.2 of Chapter 31, of the Appomattox Town Code. (See copy in Council file, December, 1981)

Carson-aye Bass-aye R. C. Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Conner-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to accept the Auditor's Report for 1980, as previously submitted to Council.

Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously. (See copy in Council file date December 1981)

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to expend the interest earned on Revenue Sharing funds to the town's General Funds as the entitlement funds were budgeted to be spent.

Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to table items 2, 5, 7, 8, 9, of the Agenda, until the next regular session and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

It was general consensus of Council that they had already authorized the Mayor, the Manager, and Mr. Bass, to handle items 3 and 4 of the Agenda.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to appoint the same 'Viewer's' Committee for Morris Avenue, which consisted of: Mr. E. Gordon, Webb Babcock, and Murrell Ferguson, and all members voted aye. Motion carried unanimously.

There being no further business to come before Council, the meeting adjourned at 5:15 P.M.
chunk_id: 20735
record_id: 1755
page_number: 1

