1  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
July 25, 2017

The Appomattox Town Council held a workshop meeting on Tuesday, July 25, 2017 at 6:00 p.m.
at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor
Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, M. Erin
Finch, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Patricia Garrett, Barry Letterman, Sheriff; Jeff Elder, Facilities Manager;
Clarence Monday, Interim Town Manager (by phone); Roxanne Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed visitors.

Town Council received an update from Sheriff Barry Letterman regarding services provided
during October 2016 – June 2017.

Council thanked Sheriff Letterman for the update.

There was an update and discussion of the Aquatic Play Area and Restrooms/Aquatic Play Area
Equipment Room.

Mr. Elder provided updated information regarding the operation and maintenance of the
proposed bathrooms and splash pad.

There were no comments or questions regarding the general maintenance.

There was some debate over the number of weeks the bathroom will be open at the park.

Mr. Elder advised he estimates the additional parking will cost $5,900 and consists of crush and
run and #57 Stone.  The parking lot will add approximately 21 more spaces.

Mayor Harvey reminded Council the appropriated budget amount for FY 2018 for this project is
$305,000.

Mr. Garrett stated it was his goal to create a park for kids to go and have a good time.

Ms. Spiggle noted that the money has been allocated and it is our intention to finish the park.

Mr. Elder said that the splash pad bid was approximately $250,000.  The Town has already spent
$270,000 including the purchase of the land.  The Town is looking at nearly the same prices as
HDLA estimated 3 years ago.

Ms. Finch responded that prices will go up over time.

Mr. Garrett stated that Council needs to vote on the bathrooms and parking lot next month.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
July 25, 2017

Mr. Conner said he wanted to be clear that he wanted to keep the park open when others wanted
to close it.

At the August 14, 2017, Council intends to reject the bid for the building, state a reason/purpose
and notify the contractor.

Mr. Monday said he would work with Mr. Elder next week to determine what Council is trying
to accomplish with the bathrooms and review the Town’s procurement policy.

Mr. Garrett said if the Town subs the building he would be willing to plumb the building to save
money.

Mr. Conner said he believes the Town needs the bathrooms and parking lot.

Mayor Harvey responded saying the Town has the money appropriated and either way needs to
accept or reject the bids.

Mr. Monday will prepare the letters for bidders so the Town can move forward with the
bathrooms and parking lot.

Mr. Garrett thanked Council for the good discussion.

Council Concerns:
Mr. Conner – The Town needs to look for bids to save people money.  There are 680 residences
that pay takes and it doesn’t need to be a burden to live in Town.  Mrs. Spiggle said this is a
community and it will be a wonderful park for our community.  Mrs. Puckette commented that
we are all pay taxes.

Staff Reports:
Mr. Monday reported that Mr. Shanaberger’s first day will be August 1, 2017.  They have been
working extensively and Mr. Shanaberger is eager to get started.

Courtland Field Project:
Mayor Harvey and Mr. Garrett provided an update on the park.  The site work has been awarded,
the Erosion and Sediment control issues have been worked out.  Dirt will start moving soon.  The
contractor will start with the stage area first.  The Town has installed the sewer line.  There is no
word on the Downtown Revitalization Grant yet.

Smart Scale – Rt. 24 project:
There has been no official word on this project.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Council Workshop Meeting
July 25, 2017

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn at 7:10 pm. All
members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

