ref: reel_03_0671
date: 1982-09-13
content: Regular meeting - September 13, 1982

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, September 13, 1982 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Members present were: R. C. Hubbard, W. H. Carson, S. E. Carter, T. W. Lawson, R. L. Bass, and Ray Noble.

Others present were: Clarence Stine, Robert C. Granato, Geraldine Granato, Shirley Walton, Linda Stewart, Opal Paulette, Hope Ferguson, Virginia Hancock, Bill Thompson, F. D. O'Brien, Henry Wright, Vic Bosiger, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Carson, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council approved the Agenda with the additions of Item 5, Old Business, Survey-F.T. Sergeant; New Business, Item 5, Executive Session, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council approved the minutes of the regular meeting of August 16, 1982, and the recessed and reconvened meeting on August 30, 1982, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

Mrs. Shirley Walton, spokesperson for the citizens present, discussed with Town Council an idea to have a Mini-Mall and Restaurant in the Depot. She stated that several businesses wish to locate in the Depot. She also stated that the V.P.I. Extension office would be willing to work with the Town on this idea.

The request for the Mini-Mall and Restaurant was referred to the Property Committee for their study and recommendations on a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carson, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Clarence Stine, Sanitarian, appeared before Council to discuss the proposed grease trap ordinance. He feels that the proposed ordinance needs more study. Mr. Wright, John Mosby Inn, was also questioning the proposed ordinance.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to table, Item 3, Old Business, until the next regular meeting and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Vic Bosiger, appeared before Council, to discuss the Cable TV.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council requested Mr. Bosiger to add WGN Chicago, Raleigh, Durham, and the Christian Broadcast System, to the Cable TV and all members present voted aye. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council approved the proposed rates for Cable TV as requested by the Appomattox Cable TV Company and advertized in the Times-Virginian. (See copy in Council file September, 1982)

Carson-aye Carter-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20758
record_id: 1778
page_number: 1

