ref: reel_02_0618
date: 1972-07-17
content: The regular meeting of the Town Council was held on Monday, July 17, 1972 with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

Members present were T. E. Conner, Martin Webb, Mrs. Robinson, Burke Guill, R. C. Hubbard, and Ivey Holland.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Mr. Conner reported that there are 27 active members of the Rescue Squad. The maximum number of members is never more than thirty. Of the 27 members 6 live in Town. Conner recommended that we give them their Town strips for the year beginning in 1973. The colors would be white on a green background.

The Street Committee decided not to put the steps back on Church Street in front of Charles Seay. They considered the steps a traffic hazard as they are too far into the street. They, therefore, recommended the Town not replace them. Motion carried.

Mrs. Robinson reported that Mr. Nash and Mr. Conner had been to Robert A. Sears and checked on his sewer problem. It was decided to let Mr. Sears pump into the Town line if he would install the pump and carry the line to the property line. Mr. Harold Nash recommended that Mr. Sears wait until the Town builds the new Sewage treatment plant as he will then be high enough, to hook to the sewer line.

Conner presented a petition he had drawn up on the Town zoning the land for 1 mile out of Town. A discussion on this followed. Mr. Holland suggested that the Mayor go before the Board of Supervisors to speed up the Zoning of Appomattox County.

At this time the Mayor called an executive meeting.

Mr. Pack turned the meeting over to Mr. Hubbard, the Chairman of the Committee for the hiring of a new Town Manager. Mr. Hubbard reported that the committee had met twice and one applicant, William S. Slagle, had appeared before the committee in person. His application and qualifications were thoroughly discussed at this time. It was recommended to the Town Council that they employ Mr. Slagle at a salary of $12,000 a year. Motion carried unanimously.

The following resolution was passed.

WHEREAS, The Town of Appomattox owns the tract of land fronting on State Route 604, containing some thirty acres, and know as the Town Sanitary Landfill,

AND WHEREAS, The Town Council of Appomattox are desirous of subdividing this tract of land into lots and selling these lots,
chunk_id: 20088
record_id: 1108
page_number: 1

