Page 2: of 3 .
August 14, 1989

Mrs. Daphne Seay appeared before Council to complain about the
property owners on her street not keeping grass and weeds cut
on their property. She would like something done about this.

Mayor Spiggle informed Council that there is a probiem with the
connection of. History Junction Shopping Center. The Health
Department has denied us the connection at this time. Our
Engineer Bernie Proctor is working on this problem.

After a lengthy discussion on the Utility Services to the
Community Center between the Board of Supervisors and Council it
was decided to have an engineering study done to see what the
cost would be. If it is feasible, then Council will consider
sharing in the cost.

Mayor Spiggle reported he has a request from Thomas Bohannon
for. water service to his property off of Route 24 on Rt. 656.
If he is willing to put in the line to our specifications,
get the easements, then deed the line to the Town, yes we
can serve him.

Council authorized Mayor Spiggle to donate to the Town of
Pamplin, our old Addressograph for water billing.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council
voted to donate the Addressograph to the Town of Pamplin and
all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

The need for sidewalk repairs was referred to the Street
Committee for their study and. recommendations (see list in
file).

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council
voted to adopt the FloodPlain Zoning Ordinance as submitted
and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council
voted to adopt the definition of “Professional” as submitted
(see attached).

co

Bass-aye Carson-aye Carter-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye
Mitchell-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council

in accordance with Section 2.1-344, went into Executive

Session to discuss Personnel only, and ali those present voting
aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council
voted to reconvene into regular session and so state that the

