1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
February 23, 2021

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday, February 23, 2021 at
6:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street,
Appomattox, Virginia with Mayor Conner, presiding.

Town Council present:  Aaron Tilton, Nathan A. Simpson, Timothy W. Garrett, James J. Boyce,
Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle and Claudia G. Puckette (phone).

Others present:  Sam Vance, Town Attorney; Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Jeff Elder,
Facilities Director; Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager; Kim Ray, Treasurer; and Roxanne Casto,
Clerk

The meeting was also broadcast LIVE on the Town of Appomattox Facebook page and public
phone participation through FreeConferenceCall.com was available.

Mayor Conner called to order the Council Workshop meeting.

Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Simpson, Council voted to convene in Closed
Session pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose
of consultation with legal counsel retained by the town regarding specific legal matters requiring
the provision of legal advice by such counsel, specifically being the claim arising from a sewer
backup at 182 Virginia Avenue.
Vote:  Tilton – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Simpson – yes, Puckette – yes, Boyce – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

The meeting was reopened to the public.

Council Member Boyce made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Garrett and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
February 23, 2021

Vote:  Tilton – yes, Spiggle – yes, Garrett – yes, Simpson – yes, Puckette – yes, Boyce – yes.
Motion carried 6-0.

Action from Closed Session:
On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Simpson, Council voted to proceed with legal
advice in this matter [closed session subject].  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried
6-0.

Council Comments:
Mrs. Puckette – Thanked Mayor Conner for all he is doing as Mayor.

Ms. Spiggle – none

Mr. T. Garrett – none

Mr. Tilton – none

Mr. Simpson – none

Mr. Boyce – none

Staff Reports:
Mrs. Kim Ray, Treasurer provided the Treasurer’s Report for revenues and expenditures though
January 2021.

Ms. Casto, Clerk of Council – written report provided for February 2021.

Mr. Elder, Facilities Director – provided an update on the current sewer project for the Inflow &
Infiltration/Trickling Filter Plant.

Mr. Shanaberger provided an update on a request by Iceland’s (ice cream food truck) for an
additional four (4) picnic tables at their recently purchased property on Old Courthouse Road.
After a lengthy discussion, Council directed staff to conduct research of other localities and to
possibly solicit input on the matter.  Staff will follow up with more information at a later date.

Mr. Shanaberger also thanked the Public Works department for their efforts during the recent ice
storms.

Adjournment:
On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to adjourn at 7:35 p.m.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Roxanne W. Casto
Clerk of Council

Richard C. Conner, Mayor

