202 REGULAR MEETING - November 14, 1994

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held
on Monday, November 14, 1994 at 7:30 P.M with Mayor Spiggle
presiding.

Those members present: H. W. Conner, S. E. Carter, R. L. Bass,
Steve Lawson, W. H. Carson, and R. W. Mitchell.

Others present: Garet Bosiger, Joan Rockwell, Frank Staley,
Bobby Clifton, Dennis Gragg, Ricky Baldwin, Bernard C. Proctor,
Tom Conrad, Matt Conrad, Bill Slagle, Cindy Smith, and

Bobbie Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Mitchell, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council
approved the Consent Agenda with one addition to the minutes,
in paragraph 6, line 10, to include Item 5, Report on sidewalk
for Lee Grant Avenue be denied due to right of way constraints,
and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Frank Staley, Cable TV, appeared before Council to discuss
some changes. They recently purchased Pamplin Cable. They
are building a new building. These changes will also bring
more channels, more options, and people should be happier.
Fiber Optic Cable Liner should be installed in 1995.

Mr. Dennis Gragg, Central Virginia Planning District Commission,
spoke regarding Amtrak Service for Appomattox. Jurisdictions
will be responsible for stops. Service may be.offered but it
comes with a price tag. We will know by January 1995 if

this is feasible.

Mrs. Joan Rockwell appeared before Town Council to speak
regarding the Mushroom Factory. We want it to be a place
where kids can come. They do not allow smoking, drinking, or
drugs. She addressed some of the problems, such as noise,
parking, and loitering on the streets. They would like to have
dances from 7:00 PM until 10:00 PM on Saturday nights.

Several people spoke regarding the request:

Garet Bosiger - Let this place coexist with the residents of
the neighborhood.

Bobby Clifton - Property onwer, presented a petition asking
that the request be denied.

Ricky Baldwin - The Sheriff's Department had 2 or 3 complaints ©
The type of crowd that attended were the same
people who have already caused problems at
another location.

