1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 26, 2024

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop meeting on Tuesday March 26, 2024, at 6:30
p.m. at the Appomattox Town Hall, Council Chambers, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Conner presiding.

Members present: Jane T. Allen, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, Claudia G. Puckette,
Nathan A. Simpson and James J. Boyce, Sr.

Others present: Carlton Duck, Jeff Elder, Facilities Director; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; R. Terry
McGhee, Town Manager and Christy J. Torrence, Interim Clerk of Council, Kaylee Simpson,
Dana Glover

Mayor Conner called the meeting to order.

DISCUSSION:

Mr. Elder led a discussion on adopting a copper pipe ordinance.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Garrett, the Council voted to adopt §62-4.
Copper pipes for the transmission of water outside Town limits. All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 6-0.

Mr. Elder asked Council to consider authorizing the town attorney to draw up a resolution to
close the portion of Hunter St considered a paper street. The street would be closed at the row of
pine trees.

On a motion by Ms. Spiggle, seconded by Mr. Garrett, the Council voted to authorize the town
attorney to draw up a resolution to close the portion of Hunter St considered a paper street.
All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Mr. McGhee gave Council an overview of the training that they would be completing. Berkley
Consulting will be handling the training. They will start by interviewing each Council member
by phone and training will end with a retreat.

Mr. McGhee discussed water for the future/water strategies. He recommended that Council move
forward with planning for the future based on six principles.

1.  Appomattox Town Council (ATC) stands firmly together.
2.  ATC takes a neutral position (not supporting any one side of the argument) on the Region

2000 landfill legal proceedings.

3.  Each side has reasonable arguments, and we should respect them.
4.  ATC take a strong position to encourage all four parties to negotiate a solution in good

faith at their meetings.

5.  Town of Appomattox prepare to reopen wells and plan & budget for future ones.
6.  Approve press release to town website: Why is Campbell County Planning to Turn Off

the Flow of Water to the Town of Appomattox in 2030?

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 26, 2024

ATC taking these positions gives the town its greatest flexibility, freedom, and independence.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Garrett, the Council voted to deny authorization
to release the press release, titled Why is Campbell County Planning to Turn Off the Flow of
Water to the Town of Appomattox in 2030? All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-
0.

On a motion by Mr. Simpson, seconded by Mr. Boyce, Council voted to purpose a joint meeting
to the Board of Supervisors with an agenda to include a closed session exempted for contract
discussions, particularly being the 2031 water renewal contract. All members present voting aye.
Motion carried 6-0.

COUNCIL COMMENTS:
Allen – none

Spiggle – It’s good to see the County Board of Supervisors here—Mr. Roark, Ms. Adams. It is
encouraging –we have hope. Thanked Mr. Elder and Tori for all their hard work.

Garrett – none

Puckette – none

Simpson – Thank you town staff.

Boyce-Thank you County for showing up. Thank you, Mrs. Ray, for all your hard work on the
budget. Thank you, Appomattox for Equality, for coming—its shows people care and its
encouraging. We have hope. Thank you, Mr. Elder and Tori, for all of your hard work.

Mayor Conner-Thank you staff for all your hard work.

STANDING COMMITTEE REPORTS:

Finance and Planning/ARPA – Finance and Planning committee met today. Mr. Simpson asked
that the committee consider a resolution to offer insurance to part-time staff and council
members at 80/20 cost split.

A motion was made by the Finance and Planning Committee to offer Key Advantage 1000
comprehensive dental and Key Advantage 1000 preventative dental to all full-time employees
and qualifying retirees only. Coming out of committee, motion did not require a second. All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Physical Development Committee - None

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
March 26, 2024

STAFF REPORTS:

Mrs. Ray-asked to delay her report to the next workshop meeting.
Mr. Elder-Church St waterline project is moving along—made it to the Public Works office.

ADJOURNMENT:

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, the Council voted to adjourn at 8:15 p.m.
All council members present voting aye. Motion carried 6-0.

Christy J. Torrence, Interim Clerk

                        Richard C. Conner

Mayor

