1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
September 23, 2014

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop Council meeting on Tuesday, September 23,
2014 at 7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T.
Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.

Others:  Carlton Duck, Stephanie James, Katrina Koerting, Stacey Wilkes, Treasurer; Bill
Gillespie, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the September 23, 2014 Council Workshop meeting to order.

Paul Harvey received correspondence from the Virginia Department of Health regarding the
sampling of the groundwater wells #5 and #9 and everything came back fine.

He also received a letter from the Commonwealth of Virginia Department of Health supporting
the Town’s USDA grant application to perform the sewer inflow and infiltration and sewer
treatment to complete the package.

Lastly, there will be a Pipeline Safety Course on October 21, 2014 at the Spring House
Restaurant for a 90 minute seminar.  The event is sponsored by Columbia Gas and Williams
Pipeline.

Mr. Gillespie wanted to remind Council that the reason for testing the wells is so Appomattox
can use the wells as a secondary source and can back feed into the County if necessary.

Mr. Gillespie provided a PowerPoint presentation to the Council regarding the County way
finding signs.  Appomattox County received a VDOT grant handled by the Local Government
Council to place way finding signs throughout the County.  The vast (90%) are going to be in
town.  The options have been narrowed down.  The signs are planned for installation before the
sesquicentennial.

Proctor Harvey, HDLA is performing the design work for the County.

Mr. Gillespie asked that if Council has a preference of the sign choices that they be shared with
the County.

Mr. Gillespie provided Council with an update on the USDA project.  The Town submitted a
response to USDA’s questions regarding more detail on the inflow and infiltration project and
the letter from the Health Department was revised regarding the closure of the Trickling Filter
Plant.  Closure of the TFP would eliminate the problem.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
September 23, 2014

The Environmental Report has been approved.  Mr. Gillespie anticipates having a letter of
conditions in November 2014.

Mr. Gillespie requested feedback from Council as to whether it would like to partner with the
Chamber of Commerce or another group for a ROSE project sign.

Mayor Harvey advised that the Chamber may go in a different direction.  The Chamber may
partner with the Historical Society.  Mayor Harvey asked if the Town and Council would like to
share a space.  After most of council agreed to this idea, Mayor Harvey said it would discuss the
idea with Mr. Spiggle, Chairman of the Board of Supervisors.

Report from the Priority and Initiatives Chairs:

Communications – Mrs. Claudia G. Puckette:
Ms. Puckette reported that the Community Picnic is Friday, September 26, 2014 from 6:00 –
8:00 p.m. at the Watkins M. Abbitt Memorial Park.  She encouraged everyone to come out and
see what is going on in your town.  After the picnic she hopes to get her committee back together
to discuss ideas previously addressed with Hollie Cammarasana, VML, Director of
Communications.

Relationships/Managed Growth – Mr. Steve T. Conner:
None

Infrastructure – Mr. N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry:
None

Garden Spot – Ms. Mary Lou Spiggle:
Ms. Spiggle reported that the following are the contributors to date:

>  Spout Spring Ruritan Club – sponsored a garden spot on 460 in front of the old

Thomasville building.

>  Farmers Bank of Appomattox – was the 1st to sponsor a garden spot and they have chosen

the site near the Huddle House at the intersection of 460 and Court Street.

>  Williams Gas Company has preliminarily chosen the spot/median strip of 460 near

Walmart.

>  The Historical Society may partner with the Chamber of Commerce
>  Dr. Paul Harvey in honor/memory of his parents – Clifford and Patsy Harvey

She is very excited about this project and planting should begin in November 2014.

Finance – Mr. C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.:
Absent

Water Park – Mr. Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett:
None

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
September 23, 2014

Standing Committee Updates:
Finance & Planning – No report

Physical Development Committee – No report

Staff Member Updates:
Town Clerk – Discussed with Council their desire to continue with the warranty program
through the National League of Cities.  After much discussion, the consensus was to suspend the
fall mailing campaign and work with the program administrators to ensure a successful spring
mailing campaign to current water/sewer customers of the Town.

Town Treasurer – none

Town Manager – Discussed with Council the continuing issues of parking in fire lanes.  The
Town Attorney is suggesting changing the ordinance to reflect either a sign or paint on the
pavement as acceptable “signage”.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to draft an ordinance as it
relates to parking in fire lanes, specifically accepting either painted on the pavement or erecting a
sign and that parking in either would violate the ordinance.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

Council Concerns:
Mrs. Puckette reported that an official with the Hardee’s organization commented to her at the
Grand Opening that the young people in Appomattox are hard working.  That says a lot about
our young people, parents, and school system.

Mr. Conner and Ms. Spiggle both commented that they had heard similar comments from
Tractor Supply and Dollar Tree.

Mayor Harvey also reminded Council of the Open House being held on Friday, September 26,
2014 from 6:00 – 9:30 p.m. by Rev. Paul Michael Raymond on the opening of a new academic
bookstore.  Please make an effort to stop by after the picnic.

On a motion by Mr. Garrett, seconded by Mrs. Puckette, Council voted to adjourn at 7:55 p.m.
with no further business.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

