1  Workshop Meeting
December 22, 2008

At the Workshop Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on December 22, 2008 at 7:00
pm in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present were Mayor Paul D. Harvey, presiding and Council members Bryan J.
Baine, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., John T. “Plicky” Williams, Karl E.
Carter and Jennifer Jamerson-Scruggs.  Also in attendance were Earl Dickerson, Bob Hopkins,
Charles Garrett, Stephanie James, Cliff Harvey, Chad Millner, Derek Norfield, Carlton Duck,
David Garrett, Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors, citizens and consultants.

Item #2 – Discussion of the transition between the current and new Town Manager.
Council Member Baine acknowledged that all council members want a smooth transition and
Mr. Garrett has already been preparing for this.  Mr. Garrett added that he has been preparing
himself and the other departments for his retirement.  His last physical day will be February 27,
2009 and he will be on annual leave the month of March 2009.  Some of the on-going projects
include installing pressure switches on all of the wells, working on the altitude valves, technical
things and getting files in place, getting set up and organized as to the people to call.  Mr. Garrett
also has plans to collect the files from his office and downstairs and will be sharing them with
office staff.  He is working to share the water maps with Jeff Elder, Utility Director.  Mr. Garrett
requested that new items be handled by the Administrative Assistant (Roxanne Paulette) with the
assistance of the Town Manager if necessary in order to allow his remaining time be spent with
the water and sewer departments.

Item #3 – Discussion of appointing an official Water Operator
Council Member Mayberry has met with Mr. Garrett regarding this and suggested referring this
item to the Personnel Committee.  Mr. Garrett added that all water operators need to know and
understand with the state budget cuts that the Virginia Department of Health may not have the
manpower to monitor and check behind our operators to make sure that all testing is being
conducted throughout the year.  It will be the sole responsibility of our operators to comply with
testing requirements.  The town currently has two other employees who hold water licenses from
the Commonwealth of Virginia.  The Personnel Committee will meet to ensure a smooth
transition.

Item #4 – Discussion of appointing an interim Zoning Administrator.
Mr. Garrett discussed the possibility of Council appointing someone to assist during this
transitional period to handle zoning items.  Currently, the consultant (Crystal Parker, WW
Associates) is familiar with the mapping program used by Mr. Garrett.  It would be helpful if the
person were able to read and interpret the Town Zoning Code and ideally complete the Virginia
Tech Planning Course.  There are occasions when the Town Attorney is consulted.  Mr. Baine
asked about the volume of applications.  Mr. Garrett responded that Conditional Use Permits are
usually requested more during summer months than winter months.  Mr. Mayberry said either
way we need someone else prepared.  Mr. Garrett advised Council that he has had a discussion
with the County and the door is open and willing to work with the town.  The Personnel
Committee will meet to discuss this matter either with the County for assistance or with an
existing Town employee no later than February 1, 2009.

2  Workshop Meeting
December 22, 2008

Item #5 – Discussion of the proposed 2009 Appomattox Town Council meeting schedule.
No changes were submitted by the Town Council.  The 2009 Appomattox Town Council
meeting schedule will be presented at the January 12, 2009 Regular Council meeting for
consideration.

Item #6  - Discussion of a proposed Resolution – “Watch for Children”

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Williams and with all
members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adopt the following resolution:

RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, the 1997 session of the General Assembly amended the Code of Virginia, with the
addition of Section 33.1-210.2 which allows the installation of “Watch for Children” signs; and

WHEREAS, a resident of Lee Grant Avenue (T1001) in the Town of Appomattox, Virginia, has
expressed concern regarding speeding on this street and potential juvenile pedestrian activity;
and

WHEREAS, a review of this area indicates that it meets the criteria set forth by the Virginia
Department of Transportation, for the installation of “Watch for Children” signs.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Appomattox Town Council does hereby request the
Commissioner of the Virginia Department of Transportation to use funds from the Secondary
Construction Budget to install “Watch for Children” signs at the appropriate location on Lee
Grant Avenue (T1001) in the Town of Appomattox, Virginia.

Motion carried.

Item #7 – Update on Copper Limits at the Trickling Filter Plant
Mr. David Garrett and Mr. Charles Garrett gave the Council an update on a meeting held with
DEQ officials last week to discuss the findings of the chemical additions at the Trickling Filter
Plant.  The meeting will result in the Town submitting a letter to DEQ requesting permit
modifications at the VPDES Permit at the Trickling Filter Plant.  Hopefully, the Magnesium
Hydroxide will eliminate the copper limits at the Trickling Filter Plant.  Town Staff is
comfortable with the Magnesium Hydroxide treatment at the Trickling Filter Plant.  Mr. David
Garrett commended the staff at the Wastewater Treatment Plants, Mitch Stone, Kent Hodges and
others that have assisted with the treatment plant.  The results have saved the taxpayers a lot of
money.

On behalf of the entire Town Council, Mayor Harvey thanked Mr. David Garrett and Mr.
Charles Garrett for sticking with the pilot study.

3  Workshop Meeting
December 22, 2008

Item #8 – Update on the Designation of the Mayor and Utility Chairman to sign DMR’s on
behalf of the Town.
Mr. David Garrett advised Council that he has submitted a letter to DEQ changing the signatures
of the monthly DMR reports to DEQ to Paul Harvey, Mayor and Jimmy Mayberry, Utility
Chairman.

The Appomattox Town Council gave reports and updates from Standing Committees:

Finance – None

Fire & Safety– Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs reported that on December 8, 2008 the committee met
with Mr. Freddy Godsey and Mr. Bobby Winfield regarding the County of Appomattox
Emergency Plan.  The County Board of Supervisors is scheduled to adopt the plan in January
2009.  Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs will be inviting Mr. Godsey and Mr. Wingfield to a workshop
meeting to discuss the adopted plan and how it applies to the Town.  Ms. Jamerson-Scruggs has
requested the Town Clerk call VML regarding prototypes of other Emergency Plans.

Ordinance – Mr. Carter reported that the committee met on December 16, 2008 to finalize the
sign ordinance for the Town.  The next meeting is scheduled for January 15, 2009.

Personnel – Mr. Williams reported that the committee has narrowed the candidates down to a
selection of people making sure that they were still interested and could avail themselves to an
interview in early January 2009.  The Town Manager’s position is ready for advertisement in the
media and trade magazines.  The advertisement may appear to be a little wordy but we need it to
be as informative as possible.

Mr. Williams advised Council that the Town Travel Policy will need to be amended to reflect the
reduction in mileage reimbursement for personal vehicle use from $0.585 to $0.55 for each mile.
This item will be placed on the January 12, 2009 regular meeting agenda.

Mr. Williams also advised Council of the amended Holiday Schedule – The Town Office will be
closed the entire day on Christmas Eve and ½ day on New Year’s Eve.

On a motion by Councilmember Williams, seconded by Councilmember Carter and with all
members present voting “aye”, Council voted to give a $300.00 donation to Pamela Nantz and
her family while on leave without pay under the Family Medical Leave Act.  Motion carried.

Street & Property - Mr. Baine reported that the brick work on Oakleigh Avenue and the exterior
downstairs bay door requires warmer temperatures before it can be completed.  The work on the
breakroom downstairs at the Town Office is on-going.  The application for the Safe Routes to
Schools is nearly completed.  The application has been completed by Region 2000 Local
Government Council’s Kelly Hitchcock.  The next committee will be scheduled for early January
2009.

4  Workshop Meeting
December 22, 2008

Utility Committee – Mr. Garrett has received a water and sewer application for the AJ
Skateworld and Evergreen Basement Building.  A sewer line of 264 feet would need to be
installed.  The in town connection does not require Council approval, but staff needs the Town
Engineer to draw a scale drawing of the invert in and out for the two manholes.  Mr. Garrett has
received a not to exceed price of $2000 to draw the necessary documents for Hansen Concrete.
The VDH will allow the Skateworld to open since the application has been made and fees paid.
Town Crews will layout the project and estimate the work will take approximately a week to
complete and will not interrupt other services.  Council gave consensus to allow Hurt & Proffitt,
Inc. to design the manholes, provide topo maps and plat for the project at a cost not the exceed
$2000.00.

The Town Manager’s report included:

1.  Update on Stimulus Package presented by Earl Dickerson.  There will be a 100 day
window of opportunity to present “shovel” ready projects.  There will also be a $10
billion dollar program from the Obama administration.  The Martha Street waterline
replacement project is “shovel” ready.  It is not known at this time if the money available
will be grants or low interest loans. Mr. Garrett stated he is willing to meet with the
Utility Committee to develop the “wish list” for consideration.

2.  Mr. Baine and Mr. Garrett have reviewed the T-Mobile Lease Agreement.  T-Mobile

would like this item to the placed on the January 12, 2009 Council Agenda for
consideration.  The Town Attorney has been working with the T-Mobile attorney.  The
life of the agreement is approximately $18,000/year, $500,000/30 years.

3.  Mr. Charles Garrett and Mr. David Garrett have created Standard Operating Procedures

for Grease Trap Inspections.  The SOP will be provided to each council member.
4.  Update on the Region 2000 Regional Water Supply Plan.  It is close to being ready for
your review.  Recently, changes were made to the safe yields of the current wells.  The
number of wells has increased since the creation of the report.

5.  Update on the Groundwater Study (Anderson & Associates).  The 50+ letters were

mailed to the property owners.  Less than 10 property owners have responded.  Town
Staff will be personally trying to get in touch with each property owner.   Hopefully each
property owner will be contacted by the middle to end of January.

Council Concerns
Mr. Baine thinks we should start looking for ways to be proactive in looking for money coming
from the next presidential administration.

Mr. Baine wanted to emphasize how greatly we reduced the copper at the plant.  Through the
perseverance of David Garrett, Charles Garrett and other employees at the plants we have greatly
reduced the copper.

Mr. Baine commented on the purchase of property by the Civil Warn Preservation and Trust.
It goes hand in hand with the Museum of the Confederacy and National Park Service.  We are
creating an impressive tourism portfolio.

5  Workshop Meeting
December 22, 2008

Mayor Harvey has again requested our written policy on political side of the Railroad Festival.
After speaking with Ms. Paulette, we have asked Mr. Wright, Town Attorney to review how
other localities handle this and advise the Town what policy we need with regards to
liability/free speech violations and what type of policy we need to implement.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon and with
all members present voting “aye”, Council voted to adjourn at 8:25 p.m.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette, CMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey,
Mayor

