ref: reel_02_0685
date: 1973-05-21
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, May 21, 1973 at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor H. B. Pack presiding. Those present were: Mrs. C. H. Robinson, Burke Guill, T. E. Conner, R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, and Ivey Holland. The meeting was opened with a prayer. The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved. Minutes of the Street Committee were read. Council discussed the substitution of a 61 foot segment of Lombardy Street or Morris Avenue instead of Ethel Street extended as the Street Committee had recommended. Mr. Slagle reported he had talked with A. E. Hopkinson about obtaining 5 feet of additional right-of-way for the purpose of widening Virginia Avenue extended. Mr. Hopkinson will sell the 5 feet to the Town at a cost of $300. Council voted on a motion by Mr. Hubbard to give the Town Manager authority to purchase the 5 feet or purchase an option on same, and seconded by Mrs. Robinson. Motion carried. Mr. Webb reported that the Fire Department could get by with only ten units for the Alert System. Mr. Bass, Fire Chief, has said he will attend the Board of Supervisors meeting and give support to Mr. Slagle. Mr. Guill reported that the 2 hour limited parking signs have been erected on Church Street. Also the new bridge has been opened to traffic on Rt. 635. Mr. Slagle was asked to explain the Retirement System to Council. The Council discussed both Option 1 and Option 2. Conner made the motion, Mrs. Robinson seconded to have Mr. Slagle explain Option 1 and Option 2 of the program to the employees of the Town. Council agreed to accept Option 1 but if the employees wanted Option 2 a further vote from Council would be necessary. Motion carried. Conner reported that the Ball Park is being used regularly, and a set of regulations for its use has been drawn up by he and Mr. Slagle. The regulations were read to Council and they gave their approval and authorized having them posted at the Ball Park. Copy attached to minutes. Guill reported that the Highway Department has indicated that if we want a sidewalk on the in-Town portion of the Evergreen Avenue project, they will approve it if we will pay 50% of the cost of materials. Council discussed the project.
chunk_id: 20146
record_id: 1166
page_number: 1

