# REGULAR MEETING – December 13, 2004

Page 1 of 4

Le

Sq \

REGULAR MEETING — DECEMBER 13, 2004

A Regular Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, December
13, 2004 at 7:30 p.m. at the Municipal Building on Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Members present: Joyce Bennett, Jimmy Mayberry, Marvin Mitchell, C. Lewis
McDearmon, Jr., John L. Wilson, Steven E. Lawson.

Others present: Carlton Duck, Jackie Drinkard, President, Chamber of Commerce, Penny

Taylor, Past President, Chamber of commerce, Patricia D’ Amario, Executive Secretary,

_ Chamber of Commerce, Chad Denton, Times Virginian Newspaper, Christie Chapman,

News & Advance, Frank A. Wright, Jr., Town Attorney, Larry Mobley, David Garrett,
Town Manager & Roxanne W. Mundy, Town Clerk.

Mayor Spiggle called the meeting to order and asked for everyone to stand for an
invocation,

Ona motion by Councilmember McDeatmon, seconded by Councilmember Mitchell,
Council voted to approve the consent agenda. All members present voting aye. Motion
carried,

There was no public to comment.
Appearance —

Jackie Drinkard, President Appomattox County Chamber of Commerce, Penny Taylor,
Past President, Patricia D’ Amario, Executive Secretary appeared before Council to give
Council an update on the Friday Cheers. They thanked Council for the use of Abbitt
Park. They were able to make a lot of money and gave approximately $3000 back to the
community through non-profit organizations, paid a substantial amount on the note at the
Farmers Bank. _

Joyce Bennett commended the decorations at the Visitor’s Center.

Standing Committee Reports —
Fire & Safety — The Fire Department received a $250,000 grant for a new truck..

Street & Property —
On a motion by Councilmember Lawson, seconded by Councilmember Wilson, Council
voted to purchase the signs to place on houses in conformance with 911 and staying

_ within the budget as allotted by the County’s 911 committee. All members present

voting aye. Motion carried.