ref: reel_03_0643
date: 1982-02-01
content: The meeting of the Water Committee was held on Monday, February 1, 1982, at 4:30 P.M., in the Appomattox Town Office.

Those committee members attending were, Chairman, Dick Bass, Sonny Conner and Buddy Carson.

Also, attending were Town Manager, W. R. Britton, Superintendent of Public Works, Harold Nash and Assistant Superintendent, John Harris.

First item of business to discuss was the policy for delinquent customers. Discussion prevailed with a number of delinquency and the time and cut off notices that followed. First step to be taken is trying to reach the customers by telephone. The customers that were not called get a past due notice, with a cut-off date on their door, after a certain time a disconnection slip is handed out along with a disconnection. Over 62 past-due notices were put out this past billing period.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Conner, it was recommended that the policy be 30 days from the day that the bill is sent, it is due. At that time a letter be sent as notice of non-payment and also, notice of cut-off. See attached letter. The cut-off date will be 15 days after the letter is sent, making a total of 45 days. All members present voted aye.

Next on the agenda to be discussed was the problem with well #6, having a large iron content and also, the water pressure on Evergreen Ave. Those problems were related to one another. A motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carson was recommending to the Town Council that in the future a line be run from Rt. 727, up to Evergreen Ave., to Dogwood Ave. and down to Morris Ave. and connect, make a loop with a 6 inch pipe, instead of replacing the 1 inch line that is there now. Also, that well #6 be discontinued because of the high iron content and a small booster pump be placed in the pump house to compensate for any loss and use the two wells in a high level system. All members present voting aye.

For discussion next was the 100,000 water tank being protected with paint and coating. Price budget at $6,000, actual bid price $5,800. Total committee okayed the construction.

The policy for connecting and running waterlines in the Town of Appomattox was discussed. The Water Committee agreed that on 1 inch lines or 1½ inch lines run in Town, that the first 100 feet would be covered by the connection fee and the rest of the distance paid by the contractor or by the person requesting water to be connected to its lot. For those lots that were subdivided prior to the sub-division ordinance. Also, recommended by the Water Committee that the policies as written be used. See Town Code - Water.

Next and individual situation on Sunnydale Ave., it is recommended from the Water Committee that persons at that waterline passes will pay their proportionate share of the cost of the extension of the waterline, being that they pay it now or when the lot request water, then with their availability fee will their proportion amount be paid.

There being no further business, the Water Committee meeting was adjourned at 6:30.
chunk_id: 20732
record_id: 1752
page_number: 1

