ref: reel_03_0650
date: 1982-02-08
content: Regular meeting - February 8, 1982

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, February 8, 1982, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, W. H. Carson, and T. E. Conner. Absent - T. W. Lawson.

Also present were: Chuck Foster, Bill Sherrod, Judy Volturo, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carson, the Agenda with one addition - 9. Report on Insurance, was approved and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

The minutes of the regular meeting on January 11, 1982 were approved as submitted.

Mr. Chuck Foster, appeared before Council, to request a conditional use permit for the building on Route 460. He would like to operate three types of businesses; one being an Amusement Center, Real Estate Office, and an exercise salon.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to hold a Public Hearing and advertize this hearing for two weeks, and if there is no objections to Mr. Foster's request, permission be given for the conditional use permit.

Conner-aye Bass-aye Carson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to advertize the ordinance on the Condemnation of Old Buildings with the addition that the Committee consist of the Council as a whole, and all members voted aye. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted that the Town pick up brush three times during the year; Spring, Fall, and the first week in January; advertize these pick-up's two weeks in advance, and pick up brush at no other times.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Conner-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried.

Council suggested that the Streets be swept only if there is no other productive work to be done.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to close that un-opened section of Morris Avenue as requested by Mr. Cantieri, with the stipulation that a 20 ft. easement be given to the Town of Appomattox.

Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20738
record_id: 1758
page_number: 1

