a

Regular Meeting - July 13, 1992

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held
on Monday, July 13, 1992, with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: R. W. Mitchell, H. W. Conner,
S. E. Lawson, R. L. Bass, W. H. Carson, and S. E. Carter.

Others present: Cheryl Freeman, Bill Sherrod, Julie Williams,
T. BE. Conner, Steve Conner, Jim Ivey, Mary F. Carter,

Beverly Carter, Suzanne Foster, Betty Hunter, Freddy Godsey,
David Garrett, Jr., Bobby Waddell, Jamie McCormick, and
Bobbie Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council
voted to adopt the Consent Agenda with one addition to the
New Business of Item 10. Depot, and all those present voting
aye. Motion carried. —

Beverly Carter appeared before Council to discuss the problem
of her pet pig. She presented her arguments regarding why she
should be allowed to keep her pig as a pet.

Suzanne Thomas spoke in favor of the pet pig.

Jim Ivey spoke in favor of the pig.

Billie Carter spoke in favor of allowing the pig to stay.

T. E. Conner, property owner, spoke against the pig being
allowed in Town. He presented a letter of his argument.

Mr. Freddy Godsey -appeared before Town Council to present
two bids to the Town ’for the refurbishing of the 1972 Town
Fire Truck. The truck is 20 years old and is leaking.

The two bids are: Slagle's 44,586.63
Fire-X Corp 43, 842.00

~ On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council —

voted to accept the recommendation of the Fire Chief to
refurbish the 1972 Town Truck at a price of $44,586.63 from
Slagle's with the County's part of 25% being paid in 1993.
The reason the bid was not awarded to the low bidder because
Slagie is an established company and Fire-X has only been

in business for four months.

Bass-aye Carson-aye Carter-aye Conner-aye Mitchell-aye
Lawson-aye Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council
voted to table the adoption of Articie 7 of the Town Code
and all those present voting. aye. Motion carried.

(33

