ref: reel_03_0131
date: 1976-09-08
content: Mr. William S. Slagle, Manager
Town of Appomattox
Appomattox, Virginia 24522

Re: Police Professional Liability

Dear Bill:

As per our recent conversation, you will recall that the Town Council approved an increase in the regular liability policy to increase the limits to $1,000,000 and included coverage of Personal Injury, which included so-called Police Professional Liability (Police Professional Liability and Personal Injury are the same). The total premium for this was $866.00 per year, of which $94.00 was for the Personal Injury Coverage. *This is approximate.

Recently the company called me and informed me that they had not intended to include the police under this coverage and that they would have to endorse the policy eliminating coverage for the police.

There was no intention on my part or the Richmond office of the company to mislead you or the Council. However, when the coverage endorsement reached the New York Home Office, the examiners there instructed the Richmond office to eliminate the coverage for police. The Personal Injury coverage is still in effect for the Town Council and employees other than police. Copy of the Personal Injury Coverage is enclosed.

Since the Council approved this additional coverage, I would assume that any other action would have to be approved by them and in order that the Police Department not be without coverage, I have taken it upon myself to buy this coverage for the Police Department through the Surplus Lines market with no obligation on the part of the Town of Appomattox or its Council.

The premium for this coverage for $100,000 one person, $300,000 each incident, $500,000 annual aggregate limit, is $272.00. If the Town Council decides against the coverage, then I will absorb the premium that is earned under this policy and I am working to get higher limits, but shall await your advice from the Council as to Primary coverage.

I am sorry that this has come about as it has and I am sorry that I will not be able to be at the Council meeting on the 13th as I will have to be out of town on another matter at that time.

Most sincerely,

J.A. BURKE & CO., INC.
R.F. Burke, III
"PLEASE DO NOT LITTER"
chunk_id: 20338
record_id: 1358
page_number: 1

