1  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, March 29, 2011

The Appomattox Town Council held a workshop meeting on Tuesday, March 29, 2011 at 7:00
p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle,
N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Joyce B. Bennett.

Others:  Cliff Harvey, Bill and June Goodrich, Hazel Thomas, Bob Hopkins, Stephanie James,
Kyle Lerner, Mitch Stone, Jerome Houston and Patrick Witcher, Stephanie James, Carlton &
Brian, Alive Media TV; Jeff Elder, Utility Director; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; Rhonda
Guill, Deputy Clerk; Bill Gillespie, Interim Town Manager; and Roxanne Paulette, Clerk of
Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Mr. Bill Gillespie, Interim Town Manager recognized the efforts of the Town’s Wastewater
Department in reducing the zinc levels at the SBR facility.  It has taken a lot of effort to lower
the levels.  A letter is being sent to DEQ of these efforts.  Council applauded the staff efforts and
thanked each of them.

Mr. Bill Gillespie, Interim Town Manager advised Council of Stormwater Management.  Every
locality will have to operate under a permit.  DCR (Department of Conservation and Recreation)
is addressing legislation for the General Assembly.  The true cost is not yet known for the
program.  Mr. Gillespie was not advocating that the Town do anything yet.    The area Managers
have been meeting about this topic.  It might be more realistic for Town’s to go with County’s or
maybe even regional.  Localities will have a little less than 2 years to comply after the General
Assembly has everything in place by the end of 2011.

Mr. Bill Gillespie, Interim Town Manager explained the Cross Connection Control Program.
Currently, the Town is not conducting inspections and the Virginia Department of Health (VDH)
will be looking at the permit and will be looking for the Town to implement an inspection
program.  The Town’s current ordinance will need to be updated.  The program will require
additional resources and will be significant the first year.

Mr. Bill Gillespie, Interim Town Manger asked Council to allow staff to review all rental
contracts.  Mr. Conner stated that it appears the leases are backwards – meaning the Town is
maintaining things inside and outside of the building.  There was considerable discussion of the
use of the depot area.  Possibly using the area for conference rooms or meeting space and
charging for the use of the building.  It was the consensus of Council to allow Mr. Gillespie to
research the matter.

Committee reports:
Finance – Mr. McDearmon reported that the committee met on March 23rd and is hopeful that
the final budget meeting will be held on April 13th.
Fire & Safety – Ms. Bennett reported that the through the efforts of Mr. Gillespie and Mr.
Conner, some of Ms. Wheeler’s property on Confederate Blvd. have been sold.  Some of the

2  Workshop Meeting

Tuesday, March 29, 2011

houses are being removed while the one on the corner of Lucy Street and Confederate Blvd. is
being remodeled.  Ms. Bennett also reported that the Fire Department is seeking Request for
Proposals (RFP’s) on the new fire truck.
Ordinance – Mr. Conner reported that a timeline is being created to review the sig ordinance as
well as review of the zoning maps and tax maps.
Personnel – Mr. Mayberry reported that the committee met on March 29, 2011.
Street & Property – Ms. Spiggle reported that the pavilions for Abbitt Park are scheduled for
delivery on April 18, 2011 and the lights at Abbitt Park have also been installed.
Utility – Mr. Gillespie reported that Mr. Elder has reviewed the plans for Phase II of the STAG
project.  The project will meet the requirements of DEQ and the EPA.  The Town is in the
process of obtaining the plat for the Nash property.  The categorical exclusion is expected soon.
Staff is expecting to bid the project in May 2011.

Staff Reports
Town Manager – Mr. Gillespie had nothing further to report.

Tourism Director – Absent

Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer provided a written report and asked Council to review the
Business License ordinance before the next workshop meeting.

Roxanne Paulette, Clerk of Council provided a written report.

Council Concerns
Ms. Spiggle appreciated the attention provided to the blighted property and thanked everyone for
their hard work.

Mayor Harvey asked Council to provide a letter of support to the Carver-Price Legacy Museum
in their efforts to obtain grant funding.  After much discussion of Carver-Price Legacy
Museum’s possible name change to the Black History and Achievement Museum it was
suggested that staff contact the Museum to obtain clarification.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council voted
to adjourn at 8:00 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

