1 Regular Council Meeting
   Monday, March 14, 2011

The Appomattox Town Council held a regular council meeting on Monday, March 14,
2011 at 7:30 pm at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou
Spiggle, N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. “Steve” Conner and Joyce B. Bennett.

Others:  Bill Goodrich, Chad Millner, Barbara Shelton, Allen Austin, Bill Burke, Ronnie
Lankford, Stephanie James, Cliff Harvey, Bob Hopkins, Will Simmons, Jeff Elder,
Carlton Duck, Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; Rhonda Guill, Deputy Clerk; Bill
Gillespie, Interim Town Manager and Roxanne W. Paulette, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed all guests and visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck delivered the invocation.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments – Mayor Harvey had several notes of gratitude.  He said the lights on
Ferguson Street and Abbitt Park look great and he would like to thank Jeff Elder and the
Public Works Department for the work they have done.  He would also like to thank Jeff
Elder and the Wastewater Department for all their hard work in getting the zinc levels
down from 140 ug/L to 65 ug/L.  He commended Jeff Elder for coming up with the idea
for reducing the zinc.

Public Appearances –
Bill Burke – 523 Dunn Roamin Road, Appomattox, VA
Mr. Burke appeared before council representing the Abbitt Family, Appomattox Chamber
of Commerce and Cheers Committee, to thank them and the Town for all their hard work
on Abbitt Park and for following through with their vision to help the Park come to
fruition. Mr. Burke also thanked council for their brainstorming efforts and he had a few
personal notes for the Town to consider.

1.  Mr. Burke said he would like to see the Visitors Center remain in the current

location; it is the backbone and heart of Main Street.  He noted that all downtown
buildings are occupied with businesses and if the Visitor’s Center is moved it will
make Main Street a ghost town.

2.  Mr. Burke would like to see all downtown business owners stop parking on Main

Street because it takes up vital parking for tourist.

3.  Mr. Burke would like to see the Town purchase a new or used trolley to transport
visitors from Clover Hill Village, National Park, Museum of Confederacy and the
old Jail and back to Visitors Center.  Volunteers could be used for this.

4.  Mr. Burke would like to see the Town work on getting a nice Hotel or Conference

Center here to ensure tourist have a place to stay.

Mr. Burke thanked council for their time.

2 Regular Council Meeting
   Monday, March 14, 2011

Allen Austin – 355 Oakleigh Avenue, Appomattox, VA
Mr. Austin appeared before council asking them to consider purchasing a framed limited
edition canvas print of Main Street.  The purchase price is $495.00 unframed and $725.00
framed.  He thanked council for their time and consideration.

On a motion by Councilmember Bennett, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council
voted to approve the consent agenda of March 14, 2011.  All members present voting
aye.  Motion carried.

Unfinished Business –
Appointments to Boards, Commissions and Committees
On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Bennett,
Council voted to approve the appointment of Eric Ferguson to the Appomattox Town
Tree Board – term expiring December 31, 2012.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon,
Council voted to approve the appointment of Ronnie D. Lankford to the Appomattox
Town Tree Board – term expiring December 31, 2012. All members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

New Business –
On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council
voted to adopt the following: Vision Statement, Mission Statement, Leadership
Philosophy, and Core Values.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Conner, Council voted to adopt
the Priorities & Initiatives Plan for FY 2012 – 2016 with an addition to review the plan
annually each January.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Appointments to Boards, Commissions and Committees –
On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Mayberry,
Council voted to approve the 2011 Historic Appomattox Railroad Festival Slate of
Officers:  Chairperson – Will Simmons, Co-Chair – Rhonda Guill, Secretary/Treasurer –
Stacey Wilkes, Safety Coordinator – Still in discussion.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

Citizen Comment Period – None

Council Concerns –
On a motion by Councilmember Bennett, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council
voted to forward a letter to the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors requesting they
reconsider obtaining a bid for the Rt. 613 waterline extension and authorized the Mayor,
Paul D. Harvey sign said letter. All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Closed Session –

3 Regular Council Meeting
   Monday, March 14, 2011

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Conner,
Council voted to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 1 of the Code of
Virginia, 1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion of the performance of a
specific public employee of the Town, specifically being Employee A.

Vote – Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Bennett – aye.

Certification –
Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies that to
the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully
exempted from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed
meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business
matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard,
discussed, or considered by this council.

Vote – Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Conner – aye,
Bennett – aye.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Garrett,
Council voted to adjourn at 9:00 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

__________________________
Roxanne W. Paulette
Clerk

_________________________
Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

