88

Regular Meeting - November 13, 1990

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was
held on Tuesday, November 13, 1990, at 7:30 P.M. with
Mayor Spiggle presiding. :

Those members present: R. C. Hubbard, H. W. Conner,
Marvin Mitchell, R. L. Bass, W. H. Carson, and
S. E. Carter.

Others present: Mrs. Clyde G. O'Brien, Tommy Moore,

W. S. Slagle, Jimmy Paulette, Dennis Gragg, Donnie Morcom,
representing Patron Property Management, and Bobbie Mullins,
Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council
voted to adopt the Agenda with the following additions:

Old Business: 6. Ball Park, 7. Sewerage Treatment Plant,
New Business: 5. Request from Bobbie Osborne, and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council
voted to approve the minutes of the October 8th meeting,
and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle read into the official record the resolution
to Dr. Clyde Garvice O'Brien and presented Mrs. O'Brien
with a signed copy.

Mr. Dennis Gragg appeared before Town Council to discuss
the bid for the sewer line to the Community Center.
Saunders Construction Company is the low bidder at
$63,905.00. Several items probably can be deleted.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council
accepted the recommendation of the Appomattox Planning
Commission with an addition to read “exception of cars

to be repaired" on the request from W. S. Slagle, for

a Conditional Use Permit on Harrell Street, and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Donnie Morcom, representing Gary Case, leasing agent for

Patron Management Corporation, appeared before Town Council to

request that they reconsider their decision concerning the
Associated Coin Laundry's relocation to the Shoppes at
Appomattox.

A motion to reconsider was not offered thus Council took no
action on this request so the decision to deny the request
still stands. ’

