ref: reel_02_0248
date: 1950-07-11
content: A regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on July 11, 1950 with Mayor S. B. Buchanan presiding and the following members present, Chas. F. James, J. E. Jamerson, C. S. Jenkins, and F. C. Dresser.

Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read.

The Street Committee reported on their Meeting with Mr. Shephard of the VEPCo. as to the relocation of poles on Court Street and advised that the VEPCo. would do all possible to relocate the guy pole and brace at W. M. & Geo. F. Abbitt's office building.

On a motion by C. F. James seconded by C. S. Jenkins and carried a petition by the residents of South Church Street to have the recently moved street light put back to its original location was approved and the Town Manager request the Power Company to accomplish same.

On a motion by C. S. Jenkins seconded by Chas. F. James and carried, completion of a 1 inch water main and the necessary fittings was authorized for a distance of 500 feet on South Church Street and from the present 1 inch main to the West Corporate Limit on the South side of Court Street.

On a duly carried motion by C. S. Jenkins and seconded by J. E. Jamerson the Town Treasurer was authorized to take the necessary steps to collect all delinquent taxes due the Town of Appomattox.

On a motion by F. C. Dresser, seconded by Chas. F. James and carried, the presently existing minimum water service rate of 30 cents per one thousand gallons be deleted and have the presently existing water service rate of 40 cents per one thousand gallons become the minimum prevailing rate to all water users, and that notice of this change of rate be included with all the water bills for July 1950. The 40 cent minimum rate to become effective August 1, 1950. There is no change in any other of the presently existing water rates.

On a motion by Chas. F. James and seconded by F. C. Dresser and carried the Town Treasurer shall accept the Appomattox Garment Company's check in the amount of $176.51 in full payment of their 460 plant water account for the months of April, May and June 1950 and their Mains Street Building water account for the month of June 1950, and advise them that in the future they will only be charged the prevailing rates to all water users, for water metered at their 460 plant as one account and their Main Street building as a separate and distinct account.

On a motion by Chas. F. James, Seconded by J. E. Jamerson and carried, the owners of any and all Taxi Cabs shall pay a fine of not less than $1.00 nor more than $5.00 if their cab is parked in the reserved bus stop zone at the Drug Store upon arrival of any and all buses. Effective after receipt of this notice.

On a motion adjourned. Signed S. Carroll Smith Clerk
I. E. Carroll Smith
Signed S. B. Buchanan Mayor
chunk_id: 19732
record_id: 752
page_number: 1

