# REGULAR MEETING – March 10, 2003

Page 3 of 3

yaa:

___ WORKSHOP MEETING _

A workshop meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Tuesday;- - -
March 25, 2003 at 7:00 PM with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: Joyce Bennett, Steve Lawson, C. Lewis McDearmon,
Norman Mayberry, Marvin Mitchell, and W. H. Carson.

Others present were: Clayton Tinnell, Keven & Myra Trent, William Phillips, Town
Attorney, Larry Mobley, Charles Garrett, Pat Wood, Times Virginian, Roxanne
Paulette, Deputy Clerk, and Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The workshop was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to lift the
water restrictions effective immediately, and all those present voting aye. Motion
carried:

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council tabled the
question of the car wash at Triangle Plaza until the April 14" meeting, but
requested the Attorney and Manager to get the answers to the questions
‘regarding loitering, have a draft agreement drawn by the Attorney for -
consideration, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Ona motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council voted to
begin the design phase of the Business 460 waterline replacement and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to
proceed with Phase | of the Inflow and Infiltration study of areas by Hurt &
Proffitt, Inc. and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Ona motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mrs. Bennett, Council voted to
increase the reconnection fee to $50.00 effective July 1, 2003, and ail those
present voting aye. Motion carried.

Ona motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to
increase the Bad Check fee to $25.00 as allowed by the Code of Virginia, and all
those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, Chairman, Street Committee, to allow the placement
of the sign in the sidewalk on Main Street as part of the Battle of Appomattox
Station, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.