# REGULAR MEETING – March 10, 2003

Page 1 of 3


The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday,
March 10, 2003 at 7:30 PM with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present: W. H. Carson, C. Lewis McDearmon, Joyce Bennett,
Marvin H. Mitchell, Steve Lawson, and Norman Mayberry.

Others present were: Bill Gillespie, Region 2000, Jeff Rogers, Consultant for Region
Commission, Glennie Mullins, Clayton Tinnell, Owner, Appomattox Town Center,
Kevin & Myra Trent, Merchants, Pat Wood, Times Virginian, Billy Perrow, School
Board, David T. Garrett, Jr., Town Manager, Roxanne Paulette, Deputy Clerk, and
Bobbie H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. McDearmon, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to approve
the Consent Agenda as presented and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. J erry Canada, District Manager, DMV, appeared before Council to request
permission to use Council Chambers one day a month for limited drivers license services.
The date would probably be the third Thursday. They will need to install some telephone
lines in the room which they will take care of the bills.

Mr. Clayton Tinnell and Kevin Trent, appeared before Council to request permission to
construct a car wash on his property in the old Triangle Plaza Shopping Center. Mr.
Tinnell will build the building and Kevin will lease the building. Council requested a site
plan with the exact location in the Shopping Center.

Mr. Jeff Rogers, Consultant, Region 2000 made a presentation to Town Council
regarding the T21 Grant for pedestrian safety. This grant will be used to construct
sidewalks and crosswalks in the study area that need attention.

Ona motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to allow the
Division of Motor Vehicles the use of the Council Chambers for limited drivers license
services one to two days per month, and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted to table Items 1,
2, & 3, New Business, until further information can be obtained by staff, and all those
present voting aye. Motion carried.