ref: reel_02_0746
date: 1974-04-15
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, April 15, 1974 at 7:30 P.M. with Vice-Mayor Mrs. Calvin Robinson presiding.

Members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, Ivey Wooland, T. E. Conner, and Burke Guill.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

The minutes of the Police, Health & Recreation Committee were read.

Mr. Terrell Griffin of the Central Virginia Planning District Commission and Sheriff Gene Richardson appeared before Council. Mr. Griffin explained the R.I.S. Agreement to the Council. This agreement will provide a more efficient and expeditious method of handling homicides that may occur. Mr. Griffin answered questions by Council.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion, seconded by Burke Guill, to adopt the Regional Investigation Squad Agreement in the form of the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the chief law enforcement officers of the Central Virginia Planning District, concerned about the increasing number of homicides which go unsolved, has proposed a regional investigation squad to help resolve this problem; and

WHEREAS, the Regional Investigation Squad, which would provide a concentration of manpower in the hours just after a homicide by allowing designated specially trained officers from each jurisdiction to work full-time on the case, has been endorsed by resolution by the Criminal Justice Advisory Committee of the Central Virginia Planning District Commission in regular session assembled on the 18th day of March 1974; and

WHEREAS, the Central Virginia Planning District Commission in regular session assembled on the 28th day of March, 1974, duly endorsed the Regional Investigation Squad (RIS) Agreement for Central Virginia which would provide an expeditious solution to solving homicide cases within the Eleventh Planning District; and

WHEREAS, upon endorsement of said Agreement, the Central Virginia Planning District Commission recommended that the Appomattox Town Council adopt the Regional Investigation Squad Agreement for Central Virginia; and
chunk_id: 20197
record_id: 1217
page_number: 1

