ref: reel_02_0361
date: 1960-02-01
content: SPECIAL MEETING
A special meeting of the Town Council met in the Mayor's Office on February 1, 1960, at 7:30 P.M., with Mayor Chas. T. Moses, Jr. presiding.
The following members were present: Mrs. C. H. Robinson, Dr. S. R. Lawson, Randolph Gilbert, Ivey Holland and H. B. Pack.
A motion was made by Ivey Holland, seconded by Dr. Lawson, that the Town enter into an agreement with the N & W Railway for traffic control of the N & W Property on Main Street. Motion carried.
Motion was made by Dr. S. R. Lawson, seconded by H. B. Pack, that the Town dismiss the Condemnation Proceedings against Mr. & Mrs. W. W. Burke, due to the fact that the price of the land and the damages are unreasonable and excessive. Voting for: Dr. Lawson, H. B. Pack, Ivey Holland and Mrs. Robinson. Voting against: Randolph Gilbert. Motion carried.
The meeting adjourned.
Signed: Chas. T. Moses, Jr. Mayor
Signed: C. J. Hunter Clerk

FEBRUARY MEETING
The regular meeting of the Town Council met in the Mayor's Office on February 15, 1960, at 7:30 P.M., with Mayor Chas. T. Moses, Jr., presiding. The following members were present: Mrs. C. H. Robinson, J. T. Almond, Ivey Holland, Drs. S. R. Lawson and Randolph Gilbert.
The minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved as read.
Motion was made by Ivey Holland seconded by Mrs. C. H. Robinson, That the Chairman of the Street Committee and the Town Manager be authorized to lay off the parking places between the N & W Station and Storage house. Motion carried.
Motion was made by Dr. S. R. Lawson, seconded by Ivey Holland, that the following resolution be adopted: Be it resolved by the Council of the Town of Appomattox as follows:
That whereas the Norfolk & Western Railway Company has leased and demised unto the said Town that strip of land lying immediately on South side of Main Street in said Town and extending from the northwestern end of the said Railroad Company property to Church Street and being that area of land lying between Main Street and the said Railroad Company property and being approximately 15 feet in width and extending from the north side of Church Street in a northwestern direction to the Appomattox Hardware Company lot,
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm or partnership or corporation to park on this said area or land, except in lanes or section designated by signs or markers, and in those designated lanes only for 15 minute periods.
chunk_id: 19845
record_id: 865
page_number: 1

