ref: reel_03_0888
date: 1985-04-08
content: Regular Meeting = April 8, 1985

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, April 8, 1985, at 7:30 P.M. with Vice-Mayor R. L. Bass presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, Ray Noble, S. E. Carter, and H. W. Conner.

Others present: Audrey Wright, Edward Johnson, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council approved the agenda with one addition to New Business, Item 4: Fire Programs, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the minutes of the March, 1985, meeting as submitted, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

Vice-Mayor Bass introduced Mrs. Wright and Mr. Johnson to Council.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council approved the Financial Statement for February and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Britton reported on the Acts program and the Cable system. The Cable System would look into adding the upper tier to the normal system, increase basic service and charge $9.50 flat rate.

Mr. Britton explained the Virginia Innovation Group. They will be working on establishing a Computer System for small Towns.

Mayor Spiggle came in at 7:55 P.M. and Vice-Mayor Bass stepped down to allow Mayor Spiggle to chair the meeting.

It was general consensus of Council that Mr. Britton get more information especially in regard to the annual dues from the Virginia Innovation Group.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to advertize the change in the Basic Service and the rate schedule, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

It was the general consensus of Council to leave the question of water testing up to Britton and Nash to decide on whether we should stay with the State Laboratory or go with Farmville.

Mr. Britton was requested to look into the Fire Programs and get more information for Council.

Mr. Hubbard reported that the Appomattox Planning Commisson has finalized the Zoning Ordinance for both the Town and County.
chunk_id: 20904
record_id: 1924
page_number: 1

