1  Appomattox Town Council

Special Call Council Meeting
Thursday, December 6, 2018 – 5:00 p.m.

The Appomattox Town Council held a Special Call Council meeting on Thursday, December 6,
2018 at 5:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, Steven T.
Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Absent:  James Boyce, Sr.

Others present:  Gary L. Shanaberger, Town Manager; Sam Vance, Attorney, Overbey, Hawkins
& Wright, and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the Special Call Council meeting to order and stated the purpose of the
Special Call Council meeting as a closed session.

Closed Session
On a motion by Councilmember Conner, seconded by Councilmember J. Garrett, Council voted
to convene in Closed Session, pursuant to §2.2-3711 (A) 7 of the Code of Virginia, 1950, as
amended, for the purpose of consultation with legal counsel retained by the Town regarding
specific legal matters requiring the provision or legal advice by such counsel, specifically being
the claim arising from a sewer backup at 182 Virginia Avenue.

Vote:  J. Garrett – yes, Boyce – absent, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette –
yes.

The meeting was re-opened to the public.

Council Member J. Garrett made the following motion:

WHEREAS, the Council of the Town of Appomattox has convened a closed meeting on this
date, pursuant to an affirmative recorded vote and in accordance with the provisions of the
Virginia Freedom of Information Act; and

WHEREAS, Section 2.2-3712 of the Code of Virginia requires a certification by Town Council
that such closed meeting was conducted in conformity with Virginia law;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Appomattox Town Council hereby certifies
that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters lawfully exempted
from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the closed meeting to which
this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business matters as were identified in
the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or considered by this council.

The motion was seconded by Council Member Conner and Council by the following recorded
vote adopted the motion:

2  Appomattox Town Council

Special Call Council Meeting
Thursday, December 6, 2018 – 5:00 p.m.

Vote:   J. Garrett – yes, Boyce – absent, Spiggle – yes, T. Garrett – yes, Conner – yes, Puckette –
yes.

On a motion by Council Member Conner, seconded by Council Member J. Garrett, Council
voted approving the letter by the Virginia Municipal League Insurance Programs as presented
and forwarding the letter to Thomas W. Lawson of Lawson & Beasley, Attorneys at Law.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

On a motion by Council Member Conner, seconded by Council Member J. Garrett, Council
voted to adjourn at 5:35 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

