1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 17, 2018

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, December 17, 2018
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey, presiding.  (This meeting was originally scheduled for Monday, December
10, 2018 however due to inclement weather it was rescheduled).

Members present:  Jonathan D. Garrett, James J. Boyce, Sr., Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W.
Garrett, Steven T. Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others present:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Nathan Simpson, Information Technology
Technician; Nick Walton, Bob Goode, Wayne Simpson, Don Wilk, Cindy Hall, Elizabeth
Milton, Christy Torrence, Office Manager; Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town
Manager.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Public Hearing:
Mayor Harvey opened the public hearing.

Mayor Harvey stated the purpose of the hearing:

The  Town  of  Appomattox  will  hold  a  public  hearing  on  Monday,  December  17,  2018  at  7:30
p.m. (rescheduled from December 10, 2018 at 7:30 p.m. due to inclement weather) at the Town
Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox to solicit public input on local community
development  and  housing  needs  in  relation  to  Community  Development  Block  Grant  (CDBG)
funding for a project in our community.

Information on the amount of funding available, the requirements to benefit low- and moderate-
income  persons  and/or  eliminate  blight,  eligible  activities,  and  plans  to  minimize  displacement
will  be  discussed.    Citizens  will  also  be  given  the  opportunity  to  comment  on  the  Town  of
Appomattox’s  past  and  current  use  of  any  previous  CDBG  grants.    All  interested  citizens  are
urged to attend.  For  additional  information, contact Gary Shanaberger, Town Manager at 434-
352-8268.

Comments  or  complaints  can  be  submitted  in  writing  to  Gary  Shanaberger,  Manager,  Town  of
Appomattox at P.O. Box 705, Appomattox, VA  24522 or at  gshanaberger@appomattoxva.gov
or by phone at 434-352-8268 until December 10, 2018.

If you plan to attend and have any special needs requirements, please call Mr. Shanaberger at the
number listed above.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 17, 2018

Mayor  Harvey  provided  the  Town  of  Appomattox  Community  Development  Block  Grant
History:

This public hearing is being held to solicit input on local community development and housing
needs in relation to Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding for a project in the
Town of Appomattox, Virginia.

Community Development Block Grant Program Background
The CDBG program is a federal program created by the Housing and Community Development
Act  of  1974.    In  Virginia,  the  Virginia  Department  of  Housing  and  Community  Development
(VDHCD)  administers  the  program.    The  program  provides  funding  for  local  governments  to
address and meet community development needs.  The stated goals of the CDBG program are to:
1)
in  Virginia’s  communities  and
neighborhoods  with  the  primary  focus  on  benefiting  low-  and  moderate-income  (LMI)
households,  2)  preventing  and  eliminating  slums  and  blight,  and  3)  meeting  urgent  community
development  needs  posing  a  serious  and  immediate  threat  to  the  health,  safety,  and  welfare  of
Virginia citizens.

the  economic  and  physical  environment

improve

VDHCD’s  typical  U.  S.  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development  allocation  of  CDBG
funds  is  approximately  $18  million  for  any  given  year.    Of  that  total,  $17  million  is  made
available  for  all  categories  of  Community  Improvement  Grants  (CIG)  after  subtracting
administrative  and  technical  assistance  costs  and  Planning  Grant  and  adding  back  recaptured
funds.    After  funding  the  Vibrant  Community  Initiative,  various  Open  Submission  Funds,  and
Urgent  Need  Open  Submission  Projects,  $8.5  million  is  typically  made  available  for  the
Competitive Grant program.  In total there are approximately 300 towns, cities, and counties in
Virginia eligible to compete for these funds each year.

A  wide  range  of  activities  can  be  pursued  with  CDBG  funds.    The  six  primary  project  types
under the CIG Competitive Grant program are:

1.  Housing
2.  Comprehensive Community Development
3.  Business District Revitalization Project
4.  Community Facility (water and sewer)
5.  Community Services Facility
6.  Economic Development

Town of Appomattox Community Development Block Grant History
The  Town  of  Appomattox  applied  for,  and  was  awarded,  a  $30,000  planning  grant  from  the
Virginia  Department  of  Housing  and  Community  Development  (DHCD)  to  conduct  planning
activities  to  access  conditions  within  the  Greater  Meadowlark  Neighborhood  area  which
included housing, infrastructure and other neighborhood related conditions.  Over the course of
the  subsequent  months,  staff,  with  the  aid  of  the  Region  2000  Local  Government  Council,
conducted needs assessment studies, surveys of neighborhood residents, and public meetings to
determine  community  development  needs.    Additionally,  housing  inspections  and  preliminary

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 17, 2018

engineering  reports  were  completed  in  order  to  best  position  the  Town’s  project  to  qualify  for,
and  ultimately  be  awarded,  a  DHCD  grant  award  through  their  completive  grant  selection
process.    As  a  result  of  these  planning  activities,  in  April  2016,  the  Town  of  Appomattox
received a multi-year grant award totaling $1,000,000.  Multi-Year 1 (MY1 - $700,000) of the
grant was initiated to address predominately housing rehabilitations  and Multi-Year 2 (MY 2 -
$300,000) would be granted upon completion of MY1 activities to address pedestrian safety and
stormwater drainage deficiencies.

The  Greater Meadowlark Neighborhood Improvement Project has been successful in satisfying
the required activities of MY1.  In total, 10 owner-occupied housing units and 5 investor-owned
housing  units  have  been  rehabilitated  to  the  DHCD  housing  quality  standards.    Additionally,  2
vacant  substandard  housing  structure  were  demolished,  meeting  a  CDBG  national  objective  of
removing blight.  Also, 8 easements have been obtained in order to secure the funding for MY2’s
pedestrian safety and stormwater drainage activities.

It  is  important  to  note  that  the  grant  has  improved  the  living  conditions  of  41  household
members, of which 100% of the households were low-income, 2 of the 15 were female head-of-
household, 9 of the 15 were elderly head-of-household, and 12 of the 15 were disabled head-of-
household.

MY1  activities  are  fully  completed  and  the  grant  is  expected  to  close-out  in  January  2019.
Further, with MY1 activities having been successfully completed, DHCD is expected to issue the
MY2  award  in  the  amount  of  $300,000  to  complete  the  determined  infrastructure  needs  of  the
neighborhood  as  well  as  substantial  rehabilitate  (demolished  and  rebuild)  one  additional  home.
MY2 of the grant is expected to be completed by the December 2019.

Previously, the Town of Appomattox utilized a 2016 CDBG-funded Planning Grant to plan for
and submit  a CIG Competitive  Grant  application in March 2017 which was unsuccessful.   The
Town  is  currently  planning  and  preparing  to  submit  a  CIG  Competitive  Grant  application  in
March  2019  with  the  assistance  of  outside  consultants  and  designers  solely  funded  by  Town
funds.

Community Development Block Grant Application Submittal for March 2019
The  Town  of  Appomattox  is  anticipating  apply  for  a  CIG  Competitive  Grant  of  approximately
$700,000  for  revitalizing  Downtown  Appomattox.    Anticipated  activities  include  façade
improvements to downtown commercial (income producing) property; streetscape improvements
along the western portion of Main Street and a portion of Church Street; and the development of
an additional parking  lot.  The Town has been working on this project  through a very engaged
Project  Management  Team  made  of  business,  community,  Town,  and  County  leaders  and
assisted by Summit Design and Engineering Services which is providing a Project Planning and
Management  Consultant  and  an  Architect  and  Balzer  and  Associates  which  is  providing  a
Landscape  Architect.    After  this  hearing,  work  will  continue  on  developing  the  Appomattox
Downtown  Revitalization  Project.    Once  fully  developed,  the  project  will  be  presented  with
additional  details  at  a  public  hearing  in  March  2019  prior  to  submitting  the  grant  application.

4  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 17, 2018

Upon  approval  by  Town  Council,  the  application  will  be  submitted  by  the  March  2019  CIG
Competitive Grant application deadline.

Public Input Requirements
Citizen comments are welcome on:

1.  General community development and housing needs.
2.  The Town’s past use of CDBG funds over the last five years.
3.  The Town’s proposed CDBG funded project.

Oral  and  written  comments  will  be  accepted.    Information  related  to  the  Town’s  past  and
proposed  use  of  CDBG  funds  is  available  to  the  public  prior  to  and  following  application
submission.  The Town will maintain files demonstrating that the public hearings were properly
advertised,  a  list  of  citizens  attending  the  hearings,  and  written  and/or  recorded  minutes  of  the
hearings.  For additional information on the CDBG program please contact:

Gary Shanaberger, Manager
Town of Appomattox
210 Linden Street
P O Box 705
Appomattox, Virginia 24522
Phone: 434-352-8268
Email: gshanaberger@appomattoxva.gov

Mayor Harvey read the following three (3) emails:

Al Sears – This is a very important project for the downtown area.  There has been a tremendous
amount  of  work  already  completed  and  I  give  my  full  support  to  try  to  make  this  a  successful
project.

Dr. Jeffrey S. Garrett – The revitalization grant is a great opportunity for our town and historic
downtown  area.    The  proceeds  from  this  grant  along  with  contributions  from  the  Town  of
Appomattox  EDA,  will  be  gladly  received  to  help  our  business  owners  spruce  up  and  make
needed repairs to their buildings.  This will coincide with the work we are doing as a community
to  encourage  patrons  and  visitors  to  spend  a  warm,  memorable,  and  inviting  time  in  our
wonderful town.

Mrs.  Susan  Adams  –  As  a  member  of  the  committee,  please  express  my  enthusiasm  in  the
collaborative business and government  efforts to revitalize downtown.  Offering businesses the
opportunity for façade improvements will enhance the aesthetics of the area as well as create a
capital and workforce economic boost.  All good wishes.

Staff presentation:
Mr. Shanaberger – Echo the feelings of the three (3) emails you read Mayor Harvey.  It is a very
worthwhile project and a lot of people are working on it.  There is no guarantee we will get the

5  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 17, 2018

grant, but it will not be due to a lack of effort.  Very excited about it and I do feel good about our
changes.

Council Comments:
Ms. Spiggle – This is an amazing opportunity for our town, and we are all in and have worked
very hard so far and will continue to work hard in our effort to be granted this wonderful grant.
We are very excited.  We have the public and business owners and will move forward like a
railroad steam train in our effort to get this grant.

Public Comments:
Wayne Simpson, owner of Wilkes Jewelers – 1941 Church Street in Appomattox.
Thank you for the opportunity to come speak tonight – not a public speaker – I guess it’s a
Christmas gift given to me a few days early – Several years ago, I rode through the Town of
Phenix, Virginia and saw the most beautiful decorations, Christmas decorations, on the telephone
poles.  I said you know for no more people who live in Phenix, VA and Appomattox has two to
three times the number of people and Appomattox cannot do something like this.  Church Street
has not be considered a part of downtown Appomattox.  I am 64 years old and when I was a
young boy in this town, we had decorations down Main Street and Church Street – all the way to
the High School (now Middle School).  I would like to see this and it is proposed for the
improvement.  It is proposed and I think you have seen this.  It is proposed for the light post with
the brackets that hold the flag like on Main Street.  I am in agreement with Gary, I think the light
posts would be ten times greater that the poles – but if we cannot get the posts we will go with
the poles.  Thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak to you and I hope you will endorse
this.  I serve on the committee as well and proud to serve and look forward to moving this to
action and make Church Street a part of downtown Appomattox.

Mr. Bob Goode, resides in Spout Spring, Virginia
I am in full concurrence to the emails and everything that’s already been said.  I think this is a
great asset for the town and a good potential for them.

Mayor Harvey closed the public hearing.

Mayor Harvey commended the hard work of the committee and hopeful we will be able to move
this forward in the way we have the vision.

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey wished everyone a beautiful holiday season.

The signage for the State Championships will be brought back to the Council in the next couple
of months.  The bids are coming in much higher than anticipated.

6  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 17, 2018

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. J. Garrett, seconded by Ms. Spiggle, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for December 17, 2018 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried
6-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. J. Garrett, Council voted to reappoint Roger
Carson, Appomattox Town Planning Commission, term expiring December 31, 2020; Mary Lou
Spiggle, Economic Development Authority of the Town of Appomattox, term expiring
December 31, 2022; Claudia G. Puckette, Economic Development Authority of the Town of
Appomattox, term expiring December 31, 2022.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried 6-0.

Standing Committee Reports:
None

Citizen Comment Period:
None

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following:

➢  Train Depot – Mr. Shanaberger reported that Dalgleish Gilpin Paxton Architects
has been working hard on the train depot project.  Dalgleish Gilpin Paxton
Architects will meet with the Physical Development Committee on January 14,
2019 at 6:00 p.m. to provide an update on the project as well as an updated
timeline.  Mr. Shanaberger also requested a summary sheet be provided by DGP
prior to the meeting so it can be distributed to Council.

➢  He and Mr. Gillespie met with USDA last week to “get up to speed” on the

closing process.  He thinks they are in good shape.

➢  Staff has begun the budget process for FY 2020 and will be distributing sheets to

department heads in the next few weeks.

➢  Anticipates signing a contract with Epitome Networks in the next 30 days to

upgrade the Town’s phone system.

➢  Office renovations will start in the next few weeks to create a couple of new

offices.

7  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
December 17, 2018

➢  The ESRI Report is available to the Town again.  Mr. Shanaberger spoke of how

helpful the report is on the retail side of marketing and the demographical
information.

➢  Reminder of the Utility Rate Study public hearing on January 14, 2019.

➢  Glad Jeff Elder is back to work!

Council Concerns:
Mr. Boyce had a report from a citizen, who is also a runner, the street light at the corner of Rt.
727 and Church Street is out.

Ms. Spiggle wished everyone a blessed Christmas season.

On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. J. Garrett, Council adjourned the meeting.  All
members present voting aye.  Motion carried 6-0.

Christy J. Torrence
Office Manager

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

