ref: reel_03_0738
date: 1980-09-08
content: Water Fund Revenue Account.
Conner-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Britton reported on the Noise Control Ordinance. Council discussed the proposed ordinance.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to table Item 5, of the Agenda, Noise Control Ordinance, Revised.

Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Carson-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Britton reported that Item 6, on the Agenda, was written wrong. It should have read that "the Appomattox County Planning Commission has recommended that this go to Public Hearing. It could be a joint public hearing with the County.

On a motion by MR. Conner, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to accept the recommendation of the Planning Commission and hold a joint public hearing with the Planning Commission and the County Board of Supervisors after advertizing the hearing for two weeks in the local newspaper.

Conner-aye Bass-aye Carson-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to approve for May-Hines & Associates to proceed with the re-evaluation of another sewer plant site at a not-to-exceed figure of $2500.00.

Conner-aye Bass-aye Carson-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle reported on a letter from Michie Company to delete certain sections of the Town Code because there is already a State Law to cover these sections.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to accept the recommendations of Michie Company for deletion of certain sections of the Town Code because they are already covered under the State Law. (See copy of the letter in Council file dated September, 1980).

Conner-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried.

Council by general consensus, agreed to turn the Arco, Inc., problems over to our Attorney, Sam Kerr, for his study and recommendations to Council.

Mr. Britton requested permission to have drawn up an ordinance to be adopted by Council specifying procedures for tearing down abandoned buildings.

Council by general consensus authorized Mr. Britton to have an ordinance drawn up and brought back to Council for approval.
chunk_id: 20811
record_id: 1831
page_number: 1

