ref: reel_03_0737
date: 1980-09-08
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was opened at 8:10 P.M. by Mayor Spiggle following a Public Hearing held at 7:30 P.M.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, T. W. Lawson, R. L. Bass, W. H. Carson, Ray Noble, and T. E. Conner.

Others present were: Citizens interested in the Beer & Wine Sale, (see listing of names in Council file dated September, 1980), Bill Sherrod, Reporter, Judy Volturo, B. H. Mullins, Clerk, and W. R. Britton, Jr., Town Manager.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Agenda was approved on a motion by W. H. Carson, seconded by R. C. Hubbard, and all members voted aye.

The minutes of the last meeting were approved as submitted.

Mr. Noble made the motion, seconded by Mr. Carson, to accept the Financial Statement for August 1980, and all members voted aye.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion, seconded by Mr. Noble, to deny the change as advertized in the Times-Virginian, in Section 3-3, of the Town Code. (See copy of change in Council file dated September 1980).

Conner-aye  Hubbard-aye  Bass-aye  Conner-aye  Noble-aye  Lawson-nay The motion carried by a 5 to 1 vote in favor of denying the change.

Mr. Britton reported on the Water Committee meeting. The Water Committee has recommended that the Town accept a bid for a test well from Fred Jones Well Company at an approximate cost of $3600.00 on David Nash's property. The Committee discussed the Walton Place Subdivision Well. They feel it will cost approximately $45,000.00 to connect this well to the Town System and this figure should be considered in the 1981 Budget. The Water Committee has also recommended that we try to return the Water Deposits to the people with a notification by the mail. Those that cannot be delivered will automatically revert to the Water Fund Revenue Account.

The Mayor reported that the water situation in the Town is becoming tight. It's not to a serious stage at this point, but if eventually it should come to that, we will have to adopt measures to take care of this problem.

Mr. Bass made the motion, seconded by Mr. Conner, to authorize Mr. Britton to proceed with the Test Well as proposed by Fred Jones Well Company on David Nash's property. (See copy of letter dated 9/8/80, Council file September 1980).

Conner-aye  Hubbard-aye  Lawson-aye  Noble-aye  Carson-aye  Bass-aye Motion carried unanimously.

It was the general consensus of Town Council that the connection of Walton Place Subdivision Well to the Town System be held in abeyance for further study and be brought back to Council at the next meeting.

Mr. Conner made the motion, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, to accept the recommendation of the Water Committee and try to return the water deposits by mail, if they cannot be delivered they automatically revert to the
chunk_id: 20810
record_id: 1830
page_number: 1

