ref: reel_03_0772
date: 1981-08-10
content: Regular meeting - August 10, 1981

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, August 10, 1981, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, W. H. Carson, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, T. W. Lawson, and T. E. Conner.

Also present were: Dr. Larry Smith, Dr. James C. May, Bill Hunter, Jim Pugh, Roy Franklin, Bill Sherrod, Times-Virginian, Judy Volturo, W. R. Britton, Jr., Town Manager, and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Noble, the Agenda was approved with one addition: New Business - 2. Water and Sewer Abatement Charge, and all members voted aye. Motion carried.

The minutes of the Council meeting dated July 13, 1981, were approved as submitted.

The Financial Statement was referred to the September, 1981 meeting.

Mr. Bill Hunter reported to Council on their progress with Arco, Inc. They would be better able to negotiate if another extension were granted by Town Council.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to give Arco, Inc., a 60 day extension to resolve the problems and possibly complete the sale.

Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Motion carried.

Mr. Britton reported to Council on the Public Hearing held on July 21, 1981 at 12:00 Noon. The main concern of the property owners involved was protection. The Board of Supervisors and property owners would be agreeable to this establishment of the corporate boundary if the property on both sides of this Street were taken in.

Dr. Larry Smith spoke with Council on his plans for the property on the corner involved. He would have no objections to being in Town provided it did not hamper his plans for his land.

The Town Council requested Mr. Britton contact all the property owners involved and get their feelings on coming into Town. This would be only for the property owners directly involved on either side of Countryside Drive, and if they have no objections then Council will take action.

Mr. Hubbard reported that the Finance Committee had met on the Business License but they will need to have another meeting before they can make all their recommendations.

Mr. Britton reported that Mr. O. B. Garris had been in contact with him again on the drainage problem on Church Street.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to table the Chinatown Drainage question. Carson-nay Conner-nay Bass-nay Hubbard-nay Lawson-nay Noble-nay Motion denied.
chunk_id: 20827
record_id: 1847
page_number: 1

