ref: reel_03_0761
date: 1981-04-13
content: Regular meeting - April 13, 1981

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, April 13, 1981, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Members present were: R. C. Hubbard, W. H. Carson, Ray Noble, T. W. Lawson and T. E. Conner. R. L. Bass - Absent (See note further down in minutes)

Also present were: Roy Franklin, Dick Hamilton, Ronald Coleman, Bill Sherrod, Times-Virginian, Judy Voltour, W. R. Britton, Jr., Town Manager, and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Agenda, with the following additions - O.B. Sewer Connections - Out-of-Town; New Business - Signs in General, was approved on a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Conner, and all members voted aye. Motion carried.

The minutes of the regular meeting held on March 9, 1981, were approved with one correction; "last paragraph should read "P.M instead of A.M.".

The March, 1981, Financial Statement, was approved on a motion by Mr. Lawson, second by Mr. Noble, and all members voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

(Mr. Bass came in at this time - 7:40 P.M.)

Mr. Ronald Coleman gave Council an up-date on the negotiations with Arco, Inc., Reference was made to a letter from C. Edward Clark, Attorney, on pending litigation against Stanley and Herman Diemler, and Arco, Inc., Manufacturing, Inc. (see copy in Council file dated April, 1981).

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to proceed with revocation process of the Cable TV Franchise from Arco, Inc.

Conner-aye Carson-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Britton reported that the installation charge on the Street lights stands but VEPCO has recommended that we could cut the charges if we combine several jobs at a time.

Mr. Hubbard requested that the corner of Church Street and Confederate Blvd. be studied by the Street Committee to determine if a larger street light is needed in that area.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Town Council voted to establish that the "Moratorium" on "out-of-town" sewer connections does not apply to sewer and water taps that are already in existence and that tapping fees have been paid on previously.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Conner-aye Motion carried unanimously.

It was the general consensus of Council that they did not wish to take a stand on the 460 By-Pass. They have already made their wishes clear on several other occasions but since Mr. Britton has been requested by
chunk_id: 20818
record_id: 1838
page_number: 1

