ref: reel_03_0762
date: 1981-04-13
content: Page 2 - April 13, 1981

...the County of Appomattox then he will be able to state Council's
wishes at the same time.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to
strike a request from the County of York for support and all members
voted aye. (see copy in Council file dated April, 1981) Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle informed Council on two decreases in Town Revenue
as concerns ABC Profits and Fuel oil use.

Mayor Spiggle informed Council of the decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals to allow Thomasville the right to install an incinerator to
burn hazardous materials. Council discussed the problem at length but
took no action at this time.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to
request the Local Government Management Relations to make a study of
Personnel Policies under a grant as the the County of Appomattox's provided
that the results of this study be given out to only persons as specified
by the Town Council.

Carson-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

Mr. Britton reported that the Town only has one existing ordinance on
signs and the Zoning Ordinance only restricts the height. He has a
request from John Mosby Inn to install a sign in front of their building.
The sign will be sixteen feet high and has already been approved by the
Highway Department.

Mr. Britton reported that Flippos' has requested 60% down-payment before
he does the repairs on the Water Tank. Council would not go along with
the 60% down-payment. They did suggest that Mr. Bass, Mr. Britton, and
the Mayor, have a meeting with Mr. Flippo to discuss the repair job and
see if this could be resolved.

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Bass, In accordance with
Section 2.1-344, an Executive Session was called for to discuss Personnel
problems and all members voted aye. Motion carried unanimously.

Council went into Executive Session at 9:00 P.M.

Council re-convened and there being no further business to come before
Council, the meeting adjourned.

Ronald C. Spiggle MAYOR

Barbara H. Neighbors CLERK
chunk_id: 20819
record_id: 1839
page_number: 1

