1  Appomattox Town Council

Special Call Meeting
April 9, 2014

At the Special Call Meeting of the Appomattox Town Council held on April 9, 2014 at 5:30
p.m.in the Council Chambers, Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox,
Virginia, there present with Mayor, Paul D. Harvey, presiding.

Council members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis Mayberry, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle,
N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, Claudia Puckette.   Absent:  Steven T. Conner

Also in attendance were:  C. William Gillespie, Jr. Town Manager and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk
of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the Special Call Council Meeting to order.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to convene in closed session pursuant to Section 2.2-3711 (A) 6 of the Code of Virginia,
1950, as amended, for the purpose of discussion or consideration of the investment of public
funds where competition or bargaining is involved, where, if made public initially, the financial
interest of the governmental unit would be adversely affected, specifically for the purpose of
Economic Development.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Puckette – aye, Conner
– absent.

Now, therefore, be it resolved, that the members of the Appomattox Town Council Appomattox
hereby certifies that to the best of each members knowledge: (1) Only public business matters
lawfully exempted from open meetings requirements by Virginia law were discussed in the
closed meeting to which this certificate resolution applies, and (2) only such public business
matters as were identified in the motion convening the closed meeting were heard, discussed, or
considered by this council.

Vote:  Garrett – aye, McDearmon – aye, Spiggle – aye, Mayberry – aye, Puckette – aye, Conner
– absent.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to adjourn.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

