1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
April 29, 2014

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop Council meeting on Tuesday, April 29, 2014 at
7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  John Redding, Rick Butler, Spencer & Jane Coleman, Clara Aleman (HDLA), Proctor
Harvey (HDLA), Katrina Koerting (News and Advance), Stephanie James (Times Virginian),
Carlton Duck (Alive Media), Rhonda Guill, Jeff Smith, Madeline Abbitt, Paul Michael
Raymond, Jane Raymond, Eddie Parrish, Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; Bill Gillespie, Jr.,
Town Manager, and Roxanne W. Casto, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed everyone in attendance.

Council received a presentation from Proctor Harvey and Clara Aleman from Harvey Design
Land Architects (HDLA) regarding the ROSE project.

On a motion by Councilmember Puckette, seconded by Councilmember McDearmon, Council
voted to approve the Organizational Chart dated April 1, 2014.  All members present voting aye.
Motion carried.

Mayor Harvey presented a Proclamation for Municipal Clerks Week – May 4 – 10, 2014.

Proclamation
Municipal Clerks Week
May 4 - 10, 2014

Whereas, the Office of the Municipal Clerk, a time honored and vital part of local government exists

throughout the world, and

Whereas, the Office of the Municipal Clerk is the oldest among public servants, and

Whereas, the Office of the Municipal Clerk provides the professional link between the citizens, the local

governing bodies and agencies of government at other levels, and

Whereas, Municipal Clerks have pledged to be ever mindful of their neutrality and impartiality,

rendering equal service to all, and

Whereas, the Municipal Clerk serves as the information center on functions of local government and

community, and

Whereas, Municipal Clerks continually strive to improve the administration of the affairs of the Office of

the Municipal Clerk through participation in education programs, seminars, workshops and the annual

meetings of their state, provincial, county and international professional organizations.

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
April 29, 2014

Whereas, it is most appropriate that we recognize the accomplishments of the Office of the Municipal

Clerk.

Now, Therefore, I, Paul D. Harvey, Mayor of the Town of Appomattox, do recognize the week of May 4

through May 10, 2014, as Municipal Clerks Week, and further extend appreciation to our Municipal

Clerk, Roxanne W. Casto and to all Municipal Clerks for the vital services they perform and their

exemplary dedication to the communities they represent.

Dated this 29th day of April, 2014

Report from Priority & Initiatives Committee Chairs:

Water Park – Mr. Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett:
Mr. Garrett reported that he and Mr. Gillespie toured the Splash Valley park in Roanoke.  They
are waiting on data from other communities.

Finance – Mr. C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.:
Mr. McDearmon reported that he had met with Stacey Wilkes and Bill Gillespie on Thursday,
May 8, 2014 and discussed the cash flow analysis for water and sewer.  He suggested based on
data not to reduce the Real Estate tax and not to increase the Meals Tax.  He did recommend that
the Town implement a Cigarette Tax.

Garden Spot – Ms. Mary Lou Spiggle:
Ms. Spiggle had no additional report to Mr. Harvey’s presentation.  The ROSE committee will
meet again on May 1, 2014 at 5:30 p.m.  Mrs. Madeline Abbitt will chair the fundraising
strategies.

Infrastructure – Mr. N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry:
Mr. Mayberry reported that he will be meeting with Mr. Gillespie next week.

Relationships/Managed Growth – Mr. Steve T. Conner:
Mr. Conner reported that he is planning a picnic for the summer.

Communications – Mrs. Claudia G. Puckette:
Mrs. Puckette reported that her committee is working on a newsletter to Town residents.  She is
planning a picnic for this summer.

Standing Committee Updates:
Finance & Planning:
Mr. McDearmon reported that the Finance & Planning Committee met to discuss the FY2015
Budget for the Town of Appomattox, the proposed Cigarette Tax and the monthly  Treasurer’s
Report.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
April 29, 2014

Physical Development Committee:
Mr. Mayberry reported the Physical Development Committee received an update on the
inclusion of Dutch Lane in the Town of Appomattox.  They also discussed the sewer inflow and
infiltration grant opportunity, the ROSE program and continued discussions of the 2015 Budget.

Staff Member Updates:
Town Clerk – none

Town Treasurer – none

Town Manager – none

Council Concerns:
None

On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council voted to
adjourn at 8:00 p.m. with no further business.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

