ref: reel_02_0251
date: 1950-10-16
content: A regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on October 16, 1950 with Councilman F. D. Dresser presiding in the absence of Mayor G. B. Buchanan and Vice-Mayor Chas. F. James. The following members were present, E. E. Jamerson, C. S. Jenkins, J. C. Caldwell, C. T. Moses, Jr. and F. C. Dresser. 

Mr. Shepherd appeared before the council to seek approval of relocating power-line poles on Main St. On a motion by J. C. Caldwell, seconded by C. S. Jenkins and carried, a recommendation by the Street Committee was approved which is as follows: all present poles from Court Street East to the hotel corner remain on private property and from this point East to Church Street any or all poles be place in a straight line, as proposed by the VEPCO. 

Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved as read. 

On a motion by C. T. Moses, Jr., seconded by J. C. Caldwell and carried, the Town is to INSTALL only 2 1/2 inch galvanized water-line from the Corporate Limits East on Burke Lane South side of Route 460 and across at a point between Jamerson's Bowling Alley and Club Appco, those proprietors to pay one-half the cost of the permit from the State Highway Department. 

It appears that the water service for C. L. Woody and applicants on Liberty Road be investigated by the Town Manager and considered only on the basis the cost not to exceed the annual income for the next ten years. 

On a motion duly carried the Manager was authorized to rent the town property at the Old Well site at the rate of $25.00 per month with water furnished. 

On a motion by C. S. Jenkins seconded by C. T. Moses, Jr. the Town Manager was authorized to procure and place a car load of cinders on Cemetery Road. 

On a motion by C. T. Moses, Jr., seconded by C. S. Jenkins the Town Manager was authorized the use of his personal tractor for necessary work for the Town at the rate of $1.00 per hour and the gas and oil used on this time. 

By a duly carried motion the Manager was authorized to secure the cost of additional street lights, one on School Street, one on Main Street and one in the E. O. Johnson development. 

On a motion by C. S. Jenkins, seconded by J. C. Caldwell and carried, putting the Old Fire Truck in useable condition for use by the Water Department was authorized. 

On a motion by C. S. Jenkins, seconded by C. T. Moses, Jr. and carried, an increase of $10.00 per month for T. R. Kestner, $25.00 per month for the Town Manager and 10 cents per hour for John Stevens was authorized, each increase to be effective on their respective pay periods. 

A petition by the Woman's Society of Christian Service of Memorial Methodist Church of Appomattox, Virginia, protesting the efforts of the ABC Board to establish a liquor store in the Town was received and read. 

On a motion adjourned: 

Signed: E. Carroll Smith Clerk 
Signed F. D. Dresser Presiding Officer F. C. Dresser
chunk_id: 19735
record_id: 755
page_number: 1

