ref: reel_03_0664
date: 1982-07-12
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, July 12, 1982, at 7:30 P.M., with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. L. Bass, T. W. Lawson, S. E. Carter, and Ray Noble. Absent - R. C. Hubbard.

Others present: Thomas Chilton, Milton Chambers, Vic Bosiger, H. T. Nash, Sr., W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carson, the Agenda with the following additions were approved: O.B.; 7. Paul Nash, 8. Cable TV, N. B. 2. Sewer problem, 3. Central Virginia Planning District Commission, 4. Appomattox Assembly; and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carson, the minutes of the June 14, 1982 meeting were approved as submitted and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council approved the Financial Statement, June 1982, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle appointed the members of the Standing Committees for Council for the new term of office. (See copy in Council file dated July, 1982).

Mr. R. L. Bass was unanimously elected Vice-Mayor for the Town Council for the new term of office.

Mr. Thomas Chilton appeared before the Town Council to request that the Town re-name that portion of Evergreen Avenue that runs by the new A.C.H.S. after a leading citizen, Mr. R. Q. Lawing.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to refer the request on Evergreen Avenue to the Street Committee for their study and recommendations.

Mr. Harold Nash, Superintendent of Public Works, spoke to Council concerning the problem of grease in the sewer lines for the Town.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to table Item 2, New Business, until the next regular meeting, and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Vic Bosiger, Appomattox Cable TV, Inc. appeared before Council to report on the Cable Status and to request the formal name change.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to approve the name change from Lynchburg Independent Broadcasting to Appomattox Cable Television, Inc., and all members present voted aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted to table Item 3, Old Business, and all members voted aye. Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20751
record_id: 1771
page_number: 1

