1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 11, 2019

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, February 11, 2019
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey, presiding.

Members present - Jonathan D. Garrett, Mary Lou Spiggle, Timothy W. Garrett, Steven T.
Conner and Claudia G. Puckette.

Member absent - James J. Boyce, Sr.

Others present - Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Donnie Simpson, Nathan Simpson, Information
Technology Technician; Bill Jamerson, Kim Ray, Town Treasurer; Gary Shanaberger, Town
Manager.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

Mayor’s Comments:
Mayor Harvey reminded Council to consider supporting the Transfer Station to increase revenue
for the County.  The next meeting is scheduled for February 19, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. with a Public
Hearing at the Appomattox County High School.

Citizen Comment Period:
Mr. Bill Jamerson spoke to the proposed increase in water and sewer bills.  He understands the
need for the increase but requests a smaller increase in the first year.

Also, the Kiddie Park is getting a lot of attention.  The sunshine, added equipment and
bathrooms has really brought the kids out.  It is a great addition to the community.

Council thanked Mr. Jamerson.

Mr. Donnie Simpson – Good evening.  I am here to night because I have decided to run for the
elected position of Sheriff.  Sheriff Letterman will be retiring at the end of the year.  The ballot
will read DONALD D. SIMPSON.  He wanted Council to know he has worked on the budget for
the last seven (7) years with Sheriff Letterman.  They are very appreciative of the Drug
Investigator position.  He will maintain an open door policy and work with the Town to solve
problems.

Council thanked Mr. Simpson.

Mr. Bill Jamerson – He supports Paul (Mayor) about the trash transfer station.  There was an
open dump about 5 miles from his house when he was on the Board of Supervisors.

Mr. Conner also stated his support of the trash transfer station.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 11, 2019

Scheduled Public Appearances:
None

Consent Agenda:
On a motion by Mr. T. Garrett, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to adopt the consent
agenda for February 11, 2019 as presented.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried
5-0.

Unfinished Business:
None

New Business:
None

Standing Committee Reports:
The Physical Development Committee needs a meeting to discuss the Train Station/Depot.

After much discussion, Council agreed to hold the February Workshop on Monday, February 25,
2019 after the public hearing and to have the PDC meeting at 5:45 p.m. prior to the 7:00 p.m.
public hearing.

Town Manager’s Report:
Mr. Shanaberger reported on the following:

➢  There will be a second public hearing on February 25, 2019 at 7:00 p.m. for the
proposed Utility Rate increase.  Mr. Bif Johnson, Hurt & Proffitt, Inc. and Mrs.
Mary Earhart, CPA will be present to give more insight to the rate study and
depreciation.

➢  Tomorrow he will be meeting with VDOT regarding the raised crosswalk on

Church Street and the speed limit signage.

➢  The Town EDA will meet tomorrow and discuss the ESRI report, goals &

missions for the EDA.

➢  Wednesday, February 13, 2019, the Downtown Revitalization Grant committee

will be meeting at the depot.

➢  The FY 2020 Budget process for the Town of Appomattox is underway.
➢  An update to the Town’s Zoning Map is necessary to incorporate the west end

boundary line adjustment and a few new streets in the Town.

Council Concerns:

Ms. Spiggle has had several citizens speak to her in regard to the speed bump on Church Street.
Church Street is a very busy street and they believe this is a terrible idea.

Mr. Conner stated he is not a fan of the speed bump idea.

3  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
February 11, 2019

Ms. Spiggle and Mr. Conner suggested leaving Church Street as it currently is.

Mr. Jonathan Garrett brought forth a motion for consideration to present a proclamation for
designating February 16 – 23, 2019 as National FFA Week.

PROCLAMATION
National FFA Week – February 16 – 23, 2019

WHEREAS, FFA and agricultural education provide a strong foundation for the youth of
America and the future of the food, fiber and natural resources systems; and

WHEREAS, FFA promotes premier leadership, personal growth and career success
among its members; and

WHEREAS, agricultural education and FFA ensure a steady supply of young professionals
to meet the growing needs in the science, business and technology of agriculture; and

WHEREAS, the FFA motto – “Learning to Do, Doing to Learn, Earning to Live, Living to
Serve” – gives direction of purpose to these students who take an active role in
succeeding in  agricultural education; and

WHEREAS, FFA promotes citizenship, volunteerism, patriotism and cooperation.

THEREFORE, I, Paul D. Harvey, Mayor of the Town of Appomattox, do hereby proclaim
the week of February 16 – 23, 2019, as National FFA WEEK.

Mr. Conner seconded the motion and Council members present voted aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Mayor Harvey advised Council that the FLAP (Federal Lands Access Program) project will be
discussed over the next several weeks regarding its viability.

On a motion by Mr. J. Garrett, seconded by Mr. T. Garrett, Council voted to adjourn the meeting
at 8:00 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried 5-0.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk of Council

Paul D. Harvey, Mayor

