1  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
May 12, 2014

The Appomattox Town Council held a Regular Council meeting on Monday, May 12, 2014
at 7:30 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia
with Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N.H. “Jimmy” Mayberry, and
Steven T. Conner.

Members absent:  Timothy W. Garrett, Jr. and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Carlton Duck, Alive Media TV; Bonnie Cunningham, Willie Craft, Katrina Koetring,
News and Advance; Stephanie James, Times Virginian; Stacey Wilkes, Town Treasurer; C.
William Gillespie, Jr., Town Manager; and Roxanne W. Casto, Clerk of Council.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order and welcomed the visitors.

Rev. Carlton Duck led the prayer and Pledge of Allegiance.

Mayor’s Comments –
Mayor Harvey congratulated the newly re-elected council member.

Scheduled Public Appearances – none

Consent Agenda –
On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adopt the
Consent Agenda of May 12, 2014 with the addition of NB #1 – Report on the ROSE program,
NB #2 – Consideration for funding appropriations for the ROSE program, specifically $15,000
for the ROSE program and $14,200 for the Master Plan and NB #3 – Consideration to authorize
Hurt and Proffitt, Inc. to apply for a grant for the Inflow and Infiltration project on the North
Side of the Town of Appomattox.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Unfinished Business – none

New Business –

Ms. Spiggle provided an update on the ROSE project.

On a motion by Councilmember McDearmon, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council
authorized the funding appropriation for the ROSE program, consisting of $15,000 for the ROSE
program marketing booklets and $14,200 for the Master Plan for a total of $29,200 from the
General Fund undesignated fund balance.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Spiggle, Council voted
to authorize Hurt and Proffitt, Inc. to apply for a Grant for the Inflow and Infiltration project on
the North Side of the Town of Appomattox, totaling $25,000 from the Sewer Fund undesignated
fund balance.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

2  Appomattox Town Council
Regular Council Meeting
May 12, 2014

Town Manager Update –
None

Citizen Comment period –
Bonnie Cunningham wrote a letter to Council – It read as follows:
5/12/14
Dear Sirs,
This is a request for the street to be paved on Sunrise Street from where it stops to my driveway.
There are three houses that have street frontage, so it would benefit all three.  We only have a
narrow gravel road.  This is town and there should be paved streets.  We do pay town and county
taxes so why don’t we have the benefit of a paved street and snow removal?  I was told when I
bought my house that the road was coming down and going over to Ethel Street within two years
and that is what it shows on my plat.  I was also told there would be no mobile homes in the area.
Both Mr. Marston and the real estate man told me this.  I wasn’t here long and they put in a
mobile home across the street from my property, well it was not zoned for it, then I get all this
run around about the street for thirteen years, they say they don’t know who the land belongs to
and it’s a paper street.  But they split part of the property and gave it to us, how could they do
that if they don’t know who owns it?  And this is just ridiculous.  Then some town employees
have the nerve to tell me in the last couple of weeks maybe you should just sell your house and
move.  I am 63 years old disabled and have no intentions of letting them run be off.  I pay my
taxes both of them, and I want what is right to be done ASAP.

I also want the people in the doublewide to take their drainage pipe off my property.

I am tired of being lied to.

You are very welcome to come to my house. I will be glad to tell and show you all about what
has happened here.  The reason I won’t come to a meeting is I do not want to be on TV.

Sincerely,
Bonnie Cunningham

Willie Craft – 371 South Fork Road
Thanked Council for allowing Town Employees to fix the major water leak in the Town of
Pamplin.

Council Concerns –
Ms. Spiggle thanked the voting citizens in the Town.  “We are ready to work for our citizens”.

On a motion by Mr. Mayberry, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to adjourn at
7:55 p.m.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

