1  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
May 27, 2014

The Appomattox Town Council held a Workshop Council meeting on Tuesday, May 27, 2014 at
7:00 p.m. at the Appomattox Municipal Building, 210 Linden Street, Appomattox, Virginia with
Mayor Harvey presiding.

Members present:  Timothy W. Garrett, C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr., Mary Lou Spiggle, N. H.
“Jimmy” Mayberry, Steven T. Conner, and Claudia G. Puckette.

Others:  Benny Harvey, Katrina Koerting, News & Advance; Alive Media TV; Stacey Wilkes,
Town Treasurer; Bill Gillespie, Jr., Town Manager, and Roxanne W. Casto, Town Clerk.

Mayor Harvey called the meeting to order.

Public Hearings –
Mayor Harvey opened the first public hearing by stating the purpose, to receive public comments
concerning the adoption of a Cigarette Tax Ordinance.  To amend Chapter 175 by adding a new
article, entitled Article VI which provides for a Cigarette Tax.  The proposed ordinance would be
levied and imposed by the Town, in addition to any other taxes which may be or have been
imposed, a tax to be paid and collected as provided in this article on each and every sale of
cigarettes made in the Town.  The tax is to be paid by the seller, local dealer or other agent by
affixing a stamp, or causing a stamp to be affixed to every pack of cigarettes, in the kind manner
required by this article and at the applicable rates as follows:  The rate or amount of tax levied or
imposed on cigarettes shall be at the rate of twenty-seven cents ($.27) for each twenty (20)
cigarettes or fractional part thereof.

The floor was opened for public comments.

There were no public comments made.

Mayor Harvey closed the first hearing.

The second public hearing was opened by Mayor Harvey and he stated the purpose, to receive
public comments concerning adoption by the Town Council of the Proposed FY 2015 Budget for
the Town of Appomattox – In accordance with §15.2-2506 Code of Virginia, the following is a
brief synopsis of the budget proposed by the Town of Appomattox for FY2015:

General Fund Expenditures
Water Fund Expenditures
Sewer Fund Expenditures
Total Expenditures

General Fund Revenue
Water Fund Revenue
Sewer Fund Revenue
Total Revenue

$1,656,608.00
$488,908.00
$828,500.00
$2,974,016.00

$1,656,608.00
$488,908.00
$828,500.00
$2,974,016.00

2  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
May 27, 2014

The floor was opened for public comments.

There were no public comments made.

Mayor Harvey closed the second public hearing.

On a motion by Councilmember Garrett, seconded by Councilmember Conner, Council voted to
adopt the Town’s Economic Development Authority recommendation of the Incentive Program
for Economic Development.  All members present voting aye.  Motion carried.

Report from the Priority and Initiatives Chairs:

Communications – Mrs. Claudia G. Puckette:
Ms. Puckette reported that she is planning to set a date for a picnic in August.  There will be
good food, sharing opportunities, information on the ROSE program and the Master Plan.

Relationships/Managed Growth – Mr. Steve T. Conner:
Mr. Conner reported that there is not a lot going on with his committee.  He did attend the FFA
banquet.  He believes the Town should reach out to kids/school.

Infrastructure – Mr. N. H. “Jimmy” Mayberry:
Mr. Mayberry reported that his committee will begin looking into the blighted property areas of
the Town.

Garden Spot – Ms. Mary Lou Spiggle:
Ms. Spiggle provided another update of the ROSE committee’s progress.  There was a meeting
on May 22 to plan strategies for the 28 identified areas.  On June 2, 2014 there will be a public
press conference to announce our 1st sponsor.  On June 9, 2014 there will be a public hearing and
resolution to adopt during the regular council meeting.

Finance – Mr. C. Lewis McDearmon, Jr.:
Mr. McDearmon reported that he had met with Town Manager and Treasurer regarding reserves,
meals tax and the cigarette tax.

Water Park – Mr. Timothy W. “Timmy” Garrett:
Mr. Garrett reported that he is waiting on financial data on neighboring water parks.

The Appomattox Chamber of Commerce through a letter by John Redding reported on the ACT
Art Project.
The Appomattox Chamber Art Project has begun in full force.  The ACT Art Committee is
committed to beautifying Appomattox and will begin with a mural painting on the east side of the
old Cities Service gas station building.  The building, owned by Brod Pack, will have an
Appomattox theme of a train engine and station with state icons of a cardinal and dogwood
blossoms.  The mural was designed by Abby Huffman, art student at Appomattox High School.

3  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
May 27, 2014

Faith Jones, Art Instructor for Appomattox High School, will direct the artistic effort being
performed by her students.

Before the mural can be painted, the building’s surface will need to be power washed, sprayed
with a sealant and primed.  For this part of the project the Chamber is seeking monetary
donations for sealant, outdoor paint, spray paint, rollers, and brushes.  A call for volunteers will
be made as the work progresses.  Jeff Elder, Appomattox Utility Director, will consult with the
Town as to the availability of a power washer and access to water.  Surface preparation can
begin as soon as it can be organized with the art department beginning as early as June 11th.

The Appomattox Chamber ACT Art project is relying on monetary contributions and donations
of material to begin this mural.  The Appomattox Historical Society, Steve Conner Real Estate
and Chamber leadership have each pledged donations of $100 or more.

Checks can be made to the Appomattox Chamber of Commerce and a plaque recognizing those
contributing over $100 will be placed on the wall.

The future intent of ACT Art is to complete the front and west side of the building as funds allow.

Mr. Redding stated in his presentation that he is looking for direction from Council.  A resolution
of support will be prepared for the June 9, 2014 Council meeting.

Standing Committee Updates:
Finance & Planning:
Mr. McDearmon reported that the committee met on May 12, 2014.  Two closed sessions were
held at that meeting.  Also, Mr. Elder provided an update on the depot building and the Treasurer
provided her monthly report at the May 12, 2014 committee meeting.

Physical Development Committee:
Mr. Mayberry reported that this committee met today.  They received a report from Sheriff
Letterman, an update on the sidewalk and narrow portion of Lee Grant Avenue, an update on the
incentive program being considered by the Town’s Economic Development Authority, discussed
the proposed chicken ordinance, received a request to the close Main Street for a 150th
anniversary celebration event by the Museum of the Confederacy, and received a request by the
Appomattox Volunteer Fire Department for assistance with a crash truck.

Staff Member Updates:
Town Clerk – none

Town Treasurer – none

Town Manager – none

Council Concerns:

4  Appomattox Town Council

Workshop Meeting
May 27, 2014

Mayor Harvey noted the mix up in the letter mailed by the Service Line Warranty company
regarding the insurance for homeowners with water and sewer service lines.

On a motion by Councilmember Mayberry, seconded by Councilmember Garrett, Council voted
to adjourn at 7:25 p.m. with no further business.  All members present voting aye.  Motion
carried.

Roxanne W. Casto, MMC
Clerk

Paul D. Harvey
Mayor

