ref: reel_03_0776
date: 1981-09-14
content: Regular meeting September 14, 1981

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, September 14, 1981, at 7:30 P.M. with Mayor R. C. Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, W. H. Carson, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, T. W. Lawson, and T. E. Conner.

Also present were: Mike Weiss, Judy Volturo, Bill Sherrod, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk

The Meeting was opened with a prayer.

The Agenda was approved as submitted.

The minutes of the regular meeting and Special Call dated August 10, 1981, and August 27, 1981, respectively was approved with two corrections. The corrections to the Special Call were 1. Mr. Lawson left early instead of Mr. Conner, and 2. on the vote taken on Motion, it should read: Conner-aye, instead of Lawson.

The Financial Statements for July and August, 1981, were approved as submitted.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Carson, Council voted to table Item 2, Old Business, until it can be further studied, and all members voting aye. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Hubbard, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to advertize all uses in the M-I Zoning District, and all members voting aye. Motion carried.

It was also general consensus of Town Council to handle all variances or appeals except M-I, as they have been handled in the past.

Mr. Britton reported that he has talked with all property owners on Countryside Drive except Miss Drinkard. The Planning Commission knew this situation would be coming up so they looked at it and they recommend that it be zoned R-2.

Mr. Hubbard made the motion, seconded by Mr. Noble, for which Council requests the Board of Supervisors to accept this establishment of the Corporate Boundary line.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Mr. Conner excused from voting by the Mayor. Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Noble, The Town Council requests the Appomattox County Board of Supervisors to accept as the Town Corporate Boundary the back property line as shown on attached maps of lots 0 thru 6.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye Mr. Conner excused from voting. Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20831
record_id: 1851
page_number: 1

