ref: reel_03_0777
date: 1981-09-14
content: Mr. Bass made the motion, seconded by Mr. Carson, that the Town Council refers the property on Countryside Drive, lots 0-6, to the Planning Commission for their recommendation of zoning, and the Town Council recommends to the Planning Commission that the total property on the east and west side be zoned R-1, with a Non-conforming use permit to lot 0.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Conner-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Hubbard, Council voted to authorize Mr. Britton to enforce the Cross Connection and Backflow Ordinance on all connections to the Town System, and use the newspaper as an educational program.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Conner-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Bass, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted that they are adequately covered for sewer back-up and no further coverage is needed, and all members voted aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Britton reported that a bid from Falwell Well Corp. has been presented for the cost estimate for the repair work to the 1,000,000 gallon water tank. This cost will be shared by May-Hines & Associates on a 50/50 basis.

The report on the Town policies, personnel, and salary comparisons was tabled and referred to the Finance Committee for their study and recommendations at the next meeting on a motion by Mr. Bass, and seconded by Hubbard, and all voted aye.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Noble, Council voted to up the coverage on the contents for the Fire Department included under the property section of the Package Policy to $50,000 at an additional cost

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, Council voted to request the Board of Supervisors to participate in the Fire Hydrants on the line to connect the Historical Park to the Town water system beginning at the Top Treat property down to the government property on Route 24.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Conner-aye Lawson-aye Hubbard-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to set an availability fee for sewer for 5000 gallons or more per day use, that each connecter be required to pay the costs to take out 1/4 times their use per day, prior to connection, in accordance with the fees as already agreed upon for Mr. H. G. Lawson.

Carson-aye Bass-aye Hubbard-aye Lawson-aye Conner-aye Noble-aye
Motion carried unanimously.
chunk_id: 20832
record_id: 1852
page_number: 1

