# WORKSHOP MEETING – May 28, 2002

Page 1 of 3

2002 at 7:15 p.m. with Mayor Spiggle, presiding.

Those present: Joyce Bennett, W. H. Carson, 8. E. Lawson, C, L. McDearmon, Jr., N. H.
Mayberry, M. H. Mitchell.

Others present: Charles Garrett, David Garrett, Town Manager, William M. Phillips,
Town Attorney and Roxanne Paulette, Deputy Clerk.

On a motion made by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Mayberry, Council voted to deny
the request for a Downtown Appomattox Market as presented by the Appomattox
Volunteers for Tourism Development. All voting aye. Motion carried.

The following alternatives were suggested by the Property and Street Committee for the
Downtown Appomattox Market.

The Property and Street Committee does not like the idea of markets downtown between
the depot and Country Charm for the purpose of selling fruits, vegetables, and yard sale
items. Alternate locations include: 1. Abbitt Park, 2, Courtland Field, 3. Triangle Plaza,
4, County Ball Park.

The Town has spent nearly $500,000.00 on the downtown area and this is not part of the
concept it was designed for.

Ona motion made by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. McDearmon, Council voted to deny
the request of the Appomattox Volunteers for Tourism Development to close Main Street
for the monthly downtown celebrations. All voting aye. Motion Carried.

The Property and Street Committee offers the following alternatives to closing the street:
1. The Town has agreed upon closing the parking lot between Country Charm
and the depot.
2. The application can be faxed to the Town Office rather than bringing it to the
Town Office as a matter of convenience. An application needs to be
completed for each event and an explanation of the intent of the each event
needs to be attached.
The committee is not in favor of closing the streets every 3 or 4 weeks.
4. Don Austin with VDOT. advises that if the Town so chooses it will consider
closing the street occasionally at the Town’s request.

Ww

The Finance Committee referred the Zoning Administration Fees to the Ordinance
Committee. The Ordinance Committee will meet at 6:30 p.m. on Monday, June 10, 2002
prior to the Council Meeting to go over the Zoning Administration Fee Ordinance draft.

The C. T. Moses, Jr. Memorial Highway request was tabled until the June 10, 2002

_—._____.. -— Council. meeting pending written- communication from VDOT,——_______-