ref: reel_03_0878
date: 1984-12-10
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held on Monday, December 10, 1984, at 7:30 P.M., with Mayor Spiggle presiding.

Those members present were: R. C. Hubbard, Martin Webb, R. L. Bass, Ray Noble, H. W. Conner, and S. E. Carter.

Others present were: Reginald Wilbun, Bernie Proctor, Frances Abbitt, W. R. Britton, Jr., and B. H. Mullins, Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the Agenda, with the following additions under New Business.

5. Appomattox Family Practice
6. Petition from the citizens
7. Resolution - James Martin
8. Pamplin City
9. Information of new business in Appomattox

All those present voting aye. Motion carried.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Conner, the Minutes of the regular November 12, 1984, meeting were approved and all those present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mayor Spiggle reported on the Public Hearing held at 7:00 P.M. this evening. He explained that the hearing was on the proposed Revenue Sharing and the increased costs of a Town tag which will now be $15.00 per tag.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council approved the November, 1984, Financial Statement, and all members present voting aye. Motion carried.

Mr. Reginald Wilbun appeared before Council to discuss some of the Conditions as set by the Water Committee regarding his Car Wash. He explained that a full-time attendent will not be practical. Also the limited working hours would create some problems. Council took no action at this time during the meeting.

Mr. Britton reported that he is working on the health problem on Patricia Anne Lane with Mr. Caldwell, Building Inspector and through the Building Code.

Mr. Bernard Proctor appeared before Council to discuss the proposed Farmers Home Administration Loan.

On a motion by Mr. Noble, seconded by Mr. Bass, Council voted to withdraw from the proposed loan from Farmers Home Administration and use the Town's savings to finance the local share of the Sewer Project.

Carter-aye Conner-aye Bass-aye Noble-aye Hubbard-aye Webb-aye Motion carried.
chunk_id: 20894
record_id: 1914
page_number: 1

