200:

REGULAR MEETING - OCTOBER 11, 1994

The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council was held
on Tuesday, October 11, 1994 at 7:30 PM with Mayor Spiggle
presiding.

| Those present were: S. E. Carter, W. H. Carson, R. W. Mitchell,
| H. W. Conner, R. L. Bass, and S. E. Lawson.

Also present: Cindy Smith, Times-Virginian, and Bobbie Mullins,
Clerk.

The meeting was opened with a prayer.

On a motion by Mr. Conner, seconded by Mr. Mitchell, Council
| voted to approve the Consent Agenda with the following additions
to New Business: 5. Railroad Crossing, 6. Cabie TV, 7. Mushroom
Factory, and 8. Sammy Carter, and all. those present voting aye.
Motion carried.

Steve Lawson, Chairman of the Street Committee presented his
Committee's report as follows:

| 1. June Chenault's request for curb - deny because it is not
financially feasible now.

2. Deny request for Street Light at Webb's Tire Company

VDOT does not recommend Crosswalks because it gives a

false sense of security to citizens who use these crosswalks.

Terry residence - sidewalk has been taken care in accordance

with the Town wishes.

ww
.

>
*

On a motion by Mr. Lawson, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted
; to accept the above recommendations of the Street Committee as

( presented to Council, and all those present voting aye. Motion
| carried.

On a motion by Mr. Carter, seconded by Mr. Lawson, Council voted
to adopt a Condolence Resolution for former Chief of Police
James R. Ford, Jr. and all those present voting aye. Motion
carried. (see copy attached)

Mayor Spiggle informed Council of the Pocahontas Celebration
in Gloucester, Virginia.

On a motion by Mr. Carson, seconded by Mr. Carter, Council voted
to turn the question of Life Insurance Program over to the

| Personnel Committee and those present voting aye. Motion

i carried.

Mr. Carson reported that the Sheriff's Department is working

: on the Railroad Crossing's in Downtown Appomattox. There is a
possibility that Truck Traffic can be re-routed onto Evergreen
Avenue, over the overhead bridge and out of Town.

