ref: reel_02_0692
date: 1970-01-01
content: the Zoning Ordinance for the Town of Appomattox. Mr. Kerr also reported that he would file an Annexation Petition, requesting that the property on which the new Appomattox County High School is situated be taken into the Corporate limits of the Town of Appomattox. Mr. Kerr asked that the Council give their consent to these two petitions and authorize him to answer the petitions as attorney for the Town. Mr. Hubbard made the motion to give the Council's consent to these petitions, and seconded by Mrs. Robinson. Motion carried.

The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.

Mr. Hubbard reported the Council needed to decide whether to sell the lot beside the lagoon to Mr. Ted Gray, for a radio antenna. The matter was shelved on a motion by Mr. Holland, seconded by Mr. Hubbard. Motion carried.

Mr. Webb reported that Mr. Carson, of Fire & Safety Equipment has contacted him concerning the alert system and they were planning a meeting for next week.

Mr. Guill made the motion, seconded by Mrs. Robinson to adopt the following resolution:

WHEREAS, the Town of Appomattox is vitally concerned with the safety of pedestrian traffic to the new Appomattox County High School; and

WHEREAS, presently there are no walkways along Evergreen Avenue within the Town of Appomattox to serve this school and the residential community along Evergreen Avenue;

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town of Appomattox will contribute fifty percent of the total cost of constructing standard curb and gutter and sidewalk along Evergreen Avenue from its intersection with Route 727 to the Corporate limits;

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town of Appomattox will adjust utilities where necessary and secure the necessary right-of-way and the construction easements.

Motion carried.

On a motion by Conner seconded by Holland; the following resolution was adopted by Council:

WHEREAS, the construction and completion of the new Appomattox County High School will greatly increase the pedestrian traffic along Evergreen Avenue (Route 727 and Route 1002); and
chunk_id: 20153
record_id: 1173
page_number: 1

