ref: reel_02_0691
date: 1973-07-16
content: The regular meeting of the Appomattox Town Council met on Monday, July 16, 1973 at 8:00 P.M. with Mayor H.B. Pack presiding. 

Members present were: T.E. Conner, R.C. Hubbard, M.L. Webb, Ivey Holland, Mrs. Robinson, and Burke Guill. 

The meeting was opened with a prayer. 

Mr. Terrell Griffin, Law Enforcement Planner, Central Virginia Planning Commission; Sheriff Gene Richardson, and James R. Ford, Jr., Town Officer appeared before Council to present the Civil Disorder Control Plan for Appomattox. Mr. Griffin explained the plan in general and answered questions by Council. On a motion by T. E. Conner, seconded by Burke Guill, Council approved the plan and adopted the following resolution: 

WHEREAS, the Central Virginia Planning District Commission, in regular session assembled on the 26th day of April, 1973, duly adopted the Civil Disorder Control Plan for Central Virginia which prescribes actions to improve the control of emergency civil disorders within the Eleventh Planning District; and 

WHEREAS, upon the adoption of said plan, the Central Virginia Planning District Commission recommended that the Appomattox Town Council adopt said Plan and execute the Central Virginia Law Enforcement Manpower Pool Agreement; and 

WHEREAS, the Appomattox Town Council concurs in the recommendations set forth in said Plan and thereby would become a party to the Central Virginia Law Enforcement Manpower Pool Agreement; 

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, by the Appomattox Town Council, in regular session assembled, that the Civil Disorder Control Plan for Central Virginia is hereby duly adopted; and 

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Mayor of the Appomattox Town Council is hereby duly authorized to execute the Central Virginia Law Enforcement Manpower Pool Agreement at the appropriate designated place and time. 

Motion carried. 

Mr. W.S. Kerr, as Legal Advisor for Thomasville Furniture Industries, came before Council to inform them that an Annexation Petition, in the name of Appomattox County, had been filed, to request that the property owned by Thomasville Industries be taken into the Corporate limits of the Town of Appomattox. He explained that Thomasville wanted to be zoned Industrial and if they were within the Corporate limits they could be zoned Industrial in accordance with
chunk_id: 20152
record_id: 1172
page_number: 1

